French Revolution
Part of the Atlantic Revolutions
The Storming of the Bastille, 14 July
1789
Date 5 May 1789 –
9 November 1799
(10 years, 6 months and
4 days)
Location Kingdom of France
Outcome
Establishment of a
constitutional
monarchy followed by
the abolition and
execution of the French
monarchy
Establishment of a
secular and democratic
republic that became
increasingly
authoritarian and
militaristic
Radical social change
based on liberalism
and other
Enlightenment
principles
Rise of Napoleon
Bonaparte
French Revolution
The French Revolution (French: Révolution française [?ev?lysj?~f??~s??z])
was a period of far-reaching social and political upheaval in France and its
colonies beginning in 1789. The Revolution overthrew the monarchy,
established a republic, catalyzed violent periods of political turmoil, and
finally culminated in a dictatorship under Napoleon who brought many of its
principles to areas he conquered in Western Europe and beyond. Inspired by
liberal and radical ideas, the Revolution profoundly altered the course of
modern history, triggering the global decline of absolute monarchies while
replacing them with republics and liberal democracies.
[1] Through the
Revolutionary Wars, it unleashed a wave of global conflicts that extended
from the Caribbean to the Middle East. Historians widely regard the
Revolution as one of the most important events in human history.
[2][3][4]
The causes of the French Revolution are complex and are still debated among
historians. Following the Seven Years' War and the American Revolutionary
War,
[5]
the French government was deeply in debt. It attempted to restore its
financial status through unpopular taxation schemes, which were heavily
regressive. Leading up to the Revolution, years of bad harvests worsened by
deregulation of the grain industry and environmental problems also inflamed
popular resentment of the privileges enjoyed by the aristocracy and the
Catholic clergy of the established church. Some historians hold something
similar to what Thomas Jefferson proclaimed: that France had "been awakened
by our [American] Revolution."
[6] Demands for change were formulated in
terms of Enlightenment ideals and contributed to the convocation of the
Estates General in May 1789. During the first year of the Revolution,
members of the Third Estate (commoners) took control, the Bastille was
attacked in July, the Declaration of the Rights of Man and of the Citizen was
passed in August, and the Women's March on Versailles forced the royal court
back to Paris in October. A central event of the first stage, in August 1789,
was the abolition of feudalism and the old rules and privileges left over from
the Ancien Régime.
The next few years featured political struggles between various liberal
assemblies and right-wing supporters of the monarchy intent on thwarting
major reforms. The Republic was proclaimed in September 1792 after the
French victory at Valmy. In a momentous event that led to international
condemnation, Louis XVI was executed in January 1793.
External threats closely shaped the course of the Revolution. The
Revolutionary Wars beginning in 1792 ultimately featured French victories
that facilitated the conquest of the Italian Peninsula, the Low Countries and
most territories west of the Rhine – achievements that had eluded previous
Armed conflicts with
other European
countries
French governments for centuries. Internally, popular agitation radicalised the
Revolution significantly, culminating in the rise of Maximilien Robespierre
and the Jacobins. The dictatorship imposed by the Committee of Public Safety
during the Reign of Terror, from 1793 until 1794, established price controls on
food and other items, abolished slavery in French colonies abroad, de-established the Catholic church (dechristianised society)
and created a secular Republican calendar, religious leaders were expelled, and the borders of the new republic were secured from
its enemies.
After the Thermidorian Reaction, an executive council known as the Directory assumed control of the French state in 1795. They
suspended elections, repudiated debts (creating financial instability in the process), persecuted the Catholic clergy, and made
significant military conquests abroad.
[7] Dogged by charges of corruption, the Directory collapsed in a coup led by Napoleon
Bonaparte in 1799. Napoleon, who became the hero of the Revolution through his popular military campaigns, established the
Consulate and later the First Empire, setting the stage for a wider array of global conflicts in the Napoleonic Wars.
The modern era has unfolded in the shadow of the French Revolution. Almost all future revolutionary movements looked back to
the Revolution as their predecessor.
[8]
Its central phrases and cultural symbols, such as La Marseillaise and Liberté, fraternité,
égalité, ou la mort, became the clarion call for other major upheavals in modern history, including the Russian Revolution over a
century later.
[9]
The values and institutions of the Revolution dominate French politics to this day. The Revolution resulted in the suppression of
the feudal system, emancipation of the individual, a greater division of landed property, abolition of the privileges of noble birth,
and nominal establishment of equality among men. The French Revolution differed from other revolutions in being not only
national, for it intended to benefit all humanity.
[10]
Globally, the Revolution accelerated the rise of republics and democracies. It became the focal point for the development of most
modern political ideologies, leading to the spread of liberalism, radicalism, nationalism, and secularism, among many others. The
Revolution also witnessed the birth of total war by organising the resources of France and the lives of its citizens towards the
objective of national defense.
[11] Some of its central documents, such as the Declaration of the Rights of Man and of the Citizen,
continued to inspire movements for abolitionism and universal suffrage in the next century.
[12]
Causes
Ancien Régime
Financial crisis
Estates-General of 1789
National Assembly (1789)
Constitutional monarchy
National Constituent Assembly (July 1789 – September 1791)
Storming of the Bastille
Abolition of feudalism
Declaration of the Rights of Man
Writing the first constitution
Women's March on Versailles
Revolution and the Church
Intrigues and radicalism
Royal flight to Varennes
Completing the constitution
Legislative Assembly (Oct. 1791 – Sept. 1792)
Contents
Failure of the constitutional monarchy
Constitutional crisis
French Revolutionary Wars and Napoleonic Wars
Colonial uprisings
First Republic
National Convention (Sept. 1792–95)
Execution of Louis XVI
Economy
Reign of Terror
Internal and external wars
Girondins expelled
Abounding civil war
Suppressing and retaliating the revolts
Profuse executions
Guillotining politicians
Disregarding the lower classes
The Directory (1795–99)
Evaluation
Coups d'état
Exporting the Revolution
Media and symbolism
Newspapers
Symbolism
La Marseillaise
Guillotine
Tricolore cockade
Fasces
Liberty cap
Role of women
Prominent women
Counter-revolutionary women
Economic policies
Long-term impact
France
Religion and charity
Economics
Constitutionalism
Communism
Outside France
Britain
Germany
Switzerland
Belgium
Scandinavia
United States
Historiography
See also
Political groups during the French Revolution
Notes
References
Further reading
Surveys and reference
European and Atlantic History
Politics and wars
Economy and society
Women
Historiography and memory
Primary sources
External links
Historians have pointed to many events and factors within the Ancien Régime
that led to the Revolution. Rising social and economic inequality,
[13][14] new
political ideas emerging from the Enlightenment,
[15] economic mismanagement,
environmental factors leading to agricultural failure, unmanageable national
debt,
[16] and political mismanagement on the part of King Louis XVI have all
been cited as laying the groundwork for the Revolution.
[17][18][19][20]
Over the course of the 18th century, there emerged what the philosopher Jürgen
Habermas called the idea of the "public sphere" in France and elsewhere in
Europe.
[21] Habermas argued that the dominant cultural model in 17th-century
France was a "representational" culture, which was based on a one-sided need to
"represent" power with one side active and the other passive.
[21] A perfect
example would be the Palace of Versailles, which was meant to overwhelm the
senses of the visitor and convince one of the greatness of the French state and
Louis XIV.
[21] Starting in the early 18th century the "public sphere" emerged
which was "critical" in that both sides were active.
[22] Examples of the public
sphere included newspapers, journals, masonic lodges, coffee houses and
reading clubs where people either in person or virtually via the printed word
debated and discussed issues.
[23]
In France, the emergence of the public sphere
outside of the control of the state led to the shift from Versailles to Paris as the
cultural capital of France.
[23] Likewise, while in the 17th century the court had decided what was culturally good and what was
not, in the 18th century the opinion of the court mattered less and consumers became the arbiters of cultural taste.
[24]
In the
1750s, during the "Querelle des Bouffons" over the question of the quality of Italian vs. French music, the partisans of both sides
appealed to the French public "because it alone has the right to decide whether a work will be preserved for posterity or will be
used by grocers as wrapping-paper".
[25]
In 1782, Louis-Sébastien Mercier wrote: "The word court no longer inspires awe
amongst us as in the time of Louis XIV. Reigning opinions are no longer received from the court; it no longer decides on
reputations of any sort ... The court's judgments are countermanded; one says openly that it understands nothing; it has no ideas
on the subject and could have none."
[26]
Inevitably, the belief that public opinion had the right to decide cultural questions instead
of deferring to the court transformed itself into the demand that the public also have a say on political questions as well.
[27]
The economy in the Ancien Régime during the years preceding the Revolution suffered from instability. The sequence of events
leading to the Revolution included the national government's fiscal troubles caused by an unjust, inefficient and deeply hated tax
system – the ferme générale – and by expenditure on numerous large wars.
[16] The attempt to challenge British naval and
commercial power in the Seven Years' War was a costly disaster, with the loss of France's colonial possessions in continental
North America and the destruction of the French Navy.
[28] French forces were rebuilt, and feeling bitter about having lost many
of France's overseas colonies to the British Empire during the Seven Years' War, Louis XVI was eager to give the American
Causes
King Louis XVI's government was
blamed for mishandling the fiscal
crises in the 1780s.
rebels financial and military support. After the British surrender at the Battle of Saratoga, the French sent 10,000 troops and
millions of dollars to the rebels. Despite succeeding in gaining independence for the Thirteen Colonies, France was severely
indebted by the American Revolutionary War. France's inefficient and antiquated financial system could not finance this debt.
[29]
Faced with a financial crisis, the king called an Estates General, recommended by the Assembly of Notables in 1787 for the first
time in over a century.
[30]
France was experiencing such a severe economic depression that there wasn't
enough food to go around. Poor harvests lasting several years and an
inadequate transportation system both contributed to making food more
expensive.
[31][32] As with most monarchies, the upper class was always
ensured a stable living, so while the rich remained very wealthy, the majority
of the French population was starving. Many were so destitute that they
couldn't even feed their families and resorted to theft or prostitution to stay
alive. Meanwhile, the royal court at Versailles was isolated from and
indifferent to the escalating crisis. While in theory King Louis XVI was an
absolute monarch, in practice he was often indecisive and known to back
down when faced with strong opposition. While he did reduce government
expenditures, opponents in the parlements successfully thwarted his attempts
at enacting much needed reforms. The Enlightenment had produced many writers, pamphleteers and publishers who could inform
or inflame public opinion. The opposition used this resource to mobilise public opinion against the monarchy, which in turn tried
to repress the underground literature.
[29]
Many other factors involved resentments and aspirations given focus by the rise of Enlightenment ideals. These included
resentment of royal absolutism; resentment by peasants, labourers and the bourgeoisie towards the traditional seigneurial
privileges possessed by the nobility; resentment of the Catholic Church's influence over public policy and institutions; aspirations
for freedom of religion; resentment of aristocratic bishops by the poorer rural clergy; aspirations for social, political and
economic equality, and (especially as the Revolution progressed) republicanism; hatred of Queen Marie-Antoinette, who was
falsely accused of being a spendthrift and an Austrian spy; and anger towards the King for dismissing ministers, including finance
minister Jacques Necker, who were popularly seen as representatives of the people.
[33]
In 1774 Louis XVI ascended to the throne in the middle of a financial crisis in which the state was faced with a budget deficit and
was nearing bankruptcy.
[34] This was due in part to France's costly involvements in the Seven Years' War and later the American
Revolutionary War.
[35]
In May 1776, finance minister Turgot was dismissed, after failing to enact reforms. The next year,
Jacques Necker, a foreigner, was appointed Comptroller-General of Finance. He could not be made an official minister because
he was a Protestant.
[36]
Necker realised that the country's extremely regressive tax system subjected the lower classes to a heavy burden,
[36] while
numerous exemptions existed for the nobility and clergy.
[37] He argued that the country could not be taxed higher; that tax
exemptions for the nobility and clergy must be reduced; and proposed that borrowing more money would solve the country's
fiscal shortages. Necker published a report to support this claim that underestimated the deficit by roughly 36 million livres, and
proposed restricting the power of the parlements.
[36]
France was the most populous country
in Europe
Ancien Régime
Financial crisis
This was not received well by the King's ministers, and Necker, hoping to bolster
his position, argued to be made a minister. The King refused, Necker was
dismissed, and Charles Alexandre de Calonne was appointed to the
Comptrollership.
[36] Calonne initially spent liberally, but he quickly realised the
critical financial situation and proposed a new tax code.
[38]
The proposal included a consistent land tax, which would include taxation of the
nobility and clergy. Faced with opposition from the parlements, Calonne
organised the summoning of the Assembly of Notables. But the Assembly failed
to endorse Calonne's proposals and instead weakened his position through its
criticism. In response, the King announced the calling of the Estates-General for
May 1789, the first time the body had been summoned since 1614. This was a
signal that the Bourbon monarchy was in a weakened state and subject to the
demands of its people.
[39]
The Estates-General was organised into three estates: the clergy, the nobility, and
the rest of France. It had last met in 1614. Elections were held in the spring of
1789; suffrage requirements for the Third Estate were for French-born or naturalised males, aged 25 years or more, who resided
where the vote was to take place and who paid taxes. Strong turnout produced 1,201 delegates, including 303 clergy, 291 nobles
and 610 members of the Third Estate. The First Estate represented 100,000 Catholic clergy; the Church owned about 10% of the
land and collected its own taxes (the tithe) on peasants. The lands were controlled by bishops and abbots of monasteries, but twothirds of the 303 delegates from the First Estate were ordinary parish priests; only 51 were bishops.
[40] The Second Estate
represented the nobility, about 400,000 men and women who owned about 25% of the land and collected seigneurial dues and
rents from their peasant tenants. About a third of these deputies were nobles, mostly with minor holdings. The Third Estate
representation was doubled to 610 men, representing 95% of the population. Half were well educated lawyers or local officials.
Nearly a third were in trades or industry; 51 were wealthy land owners.
[41][42]
To assist delegates, "Books of grievances" (cahiers de doléances) were compiled
to list problems.
[43] The books articulated ideas which would have seemed
radical only months before; however, most supported the monarchical system in
general. Many assumed the Estates-General would approve future taxes, and
Enlightenment ideals were relatively rare.
[44][45]
Pamphlets by liberal nobles and clergy became widespread after the lifting of
press censorship.
[46] The Abbé Sieyès, a theorist and Catholic clergyman, argued
the paramount importance of the Third Estate in the pamphlet Qu'est-ce que le
tiers état? (What is the Third Estate?) published in January 1789. He asserted:
"What is the Third Estate? Everything. What has it been until now in the
political order? Nothing. What does it want to be? Something."
[47]
The Estates-General convened in the Grands Salles des Menus-Plaisirs in Versailles on 5 May 1789 and opened with a three-hour
speech by Necker. The Third Estate demanded that the credentials of deputies should be verified by all deputies, rather than each
estate verifying the credentials of its own members, but negotiations with the other estates failed to achieve this. The commoners
appealed to the clergy, who asked for more time. Necker then stated that each estate should verify its own members' credentials
and that the king should act as arbitrator.
[48]
Caricature of the Third Estate
carrying the First Estate (clergy) and
the Second Estate (nobility) on its
back
Estates-General of 1789
The meeting of the Estates General
on 5 May 1789 at Versailles
On 10 June 1789 Abbé Sieyès moved that the Third Estate, now meeting as the
Communes (English: "Commons") proceed with verifying its own powers and
invite the other two estates to take part, but not to wait for them. They proceeded
to do so two days later, completing the process on 17 June.
[49] Then they voted a
measure far more radical, declaring themselves the National Assembly, an
assembly not of the Estates but of "the People". They invited the other orders to
join them, but made it clear they intended to conduct the nation's affairs with or
without them.
[50]
In an attempt to keep control of the process and prevent the Assembly from
convening, Louis XVI ordered the closure of the Salle des États where the
Assembly met, making an excuse that the carpenters needed to prepare the hall
for a royal speech in two days. Weather did not allow an outdoor meeting, and fearing an attack ordered by Louis XVI, they met
in a tennis court just outside Versailles, where they proceeded to swear the Tennis Court Oath (20 June 1789) under which they
agreed not to separate until they had given France a constitution. A majority of the representatives of the clergy soon joined them,
as did 47 members of the nobility. By 27 June, the royal party had overtly given in, although the military began to arrive in large
numbers around Paris and Versailles. Messages of support for the Assembly poured in from Paris and other French cities.
[51]
By this time, Necker had earned the enmity of many members of the French court for his overt manipulation of public opinion.
Marie Antoinette, the King's younger brother the Comte d'Artois, and other conservative members of the King's privy council
urged him to dismiss Necker as financial advisor. On 11 July 1789, after Necker published an inaccurate account of the
government's debts and made it available to the public, the King fired him, and completely restructured the finance ministry at the
same time.
[52]
Many Parisians presumed Louis' actions to be aimed against the Assembly
and began open rebellion when they heard the news the next day. They
were also afraid that arriving soldiers – mostly foreign mercenaries – had
been summoned to shut down the National Constituent Assembly. The
Assembly, meeting at Versailles, went into nonstop session to prevent
another eviction from their meeting place. Paris was soon consumed by
riots, chaos, and widespread looting. The mobs soon had the support of
some of the French Guard, who were armed and trained soldiers.
[53]
On 14 July, the insurgents set their eyes on the large weapons and
ammunition cache inside the Bastille fortress, which was also perceived to
be a symbol of royal power. After several hours of combat, the prison fell
that afternoon. Despite ordering a ceasefire, which prevented a mutual
massacre, Governor Marquis Bernard-René de Launay was beaten, stabbed
and decapitated; his head was placed on a pike and paraded about the city. Although the fortress had held only seven prisoners
National Assembly (1789)
The National Assembly taking the
Tennis Court Oath (sketch by
Jacques-Louis David)
Constitutional monarchy
National Constituent Assembly (July 1789 – September 1791)
Storming of the Bastille
The Storming of the Bastille in July 1789 is
widely regarded as the most iconic event
of the Revolution.
(four forgers, two noblemen kept for immoral behaviour, and a murder suspect) the Bastille served as a potent symbol of
everything hated under the Ancien Régime. Returning to the Hôtel de Ville (city hall), the mob accused the prévôt des marchands
(roughly, mayor) Jacques de Flesselles of treachery and butchered him.
[54]
The King, alarmed by the violence, backed down, at least for the time being. The Marquis de Lafayette took up command of the
National Guard at Paris. Jean-Sylvain Bailly, president of the Assembly at the time of the Tennis Court Oath, became the city's
mayor under a new governmental structure known as the commune. The King visited Paris, where, on 17 July he accepted a
tricolore cockade, to cries of Vive la Nation ("Long live the Nation") and Vive le Roi ("Long live the King").
[55]
Necker was recalled to power, but his triumph was short-lived. An astute financier but a less astute politician, Necker overplayed
his hand by demanding and obtaining a general amnesty, losing much of the people's favour.
As civil authority rapidly deteriorated, with random acts of violence and theft breaking out across the country, members of the
nobility, fearing for their safety, fled to neighbouring countries; many of these émigrés, as they were called, funded counterrevolutionary causes within France and urged foreign monarchs to offer military support to a counter-revolution.
[56]
By late July, the spirit of popular sovereignty had spread throughout France. In rural areas, many commoners began to form
militias and arm themselves against a foreign invasion: some attacked the châteaux of the nobility as part of a general agrarian
insurrection known as "la Grande Peur" ("the Great Fear"). In addition, wild rumours and paranoia caused widespread unrest and
civil disturbances that contributed to the collapse of law and order.
[57]
On 4 and 11 August 1789 the National Constituent Assembly abolished
privileges and feudalism (numerous peasant revolts had almost brought
feudalism to an end) in the August Decrees, sweeping away personal
serfdom,
[58] exclusive hunting rights and other seigneurial rights of the Second
Estate (nobility).
Also the tithe (a 10% tax for the Church, gathered by the First Estate (clergy)),
which had been the main source of income for many clergymen, was
abolished.
[59] During the course of a few hours nobles, clergy, towns, provinces,
companies and cities lost their special privileges.
[60]
Historian Georges Lefebvre summarises the night's work:
"Without debate the Assembly enthusiastically adopted equality
of taxation and redemption of all manorial rights except for
those involving personal servitude – which were to be abolished
without indemnification. Other proposals followed with the same
success: the equality of legal punishment, admission of all to
public office, abolition of venality in office,
[61] conversion of the
tithe into payments subject to redemption, freedom of worship,
prohibition of plural holding of benefices ... Privileges of
provinces and towns were offered as a last sacrifice."
[62]
Originally the peasants were supposed to pay for the release of seigneurial dues; these dues affected more than a fourth of the
farmland in France and provided most of the income of the large landowners.
[63] The majority refused to pay and in 1793 the
obligation was cancelled. Thus the peasants got their land free, and also no longer paid the tithe to the church.
[64]
Abolition of feudalism
The Declaration of the Rights of Man
and of the Citizen of 26 August 1789
Furet emphasises that the decisions of August 1789 survived and became an integral part of
"the founding texts of modern France. They destroyed aristocratic society from top to bottom, along with its
structure of dependencies and privileges. For this structure they substituted the modern, autonomous individual,
free to do whatever was not prohibited by law ... The Revolution thus distinguished itself quite early by its radical
individualism"
[65]
The old judicial system, based on the 13 regional parlements, was suspended in November 1789, and officially abolished in
September 1790. The main institutional pillars of the old regime had vanished.
[66]
On 26 August 1789 the Assembly published the Declaration of the Rights of Man and of the Citizen, which comprised a
statement of principles rather than a constitution with legal effect. The Declaration was directly influenced by Thomas Jefferson
working with General Lafayette, who introduced it.
[67]
The National Constituent Assembly functioned not only as a legislature, but also as a body to draft a new constitution.
Necker, Mounier, Lally-Tollendal and others argued unsuccessfully for a senate, with members appointed by the crown on the
nomination of the people. The bulk of the nobles argued for an aristocratic upper house elected by the nobles. The popular party
carried the day: France would have a single, unicameral assembly. The King retained only a "suspensive veto"; he could delay the
implementation of a law, but not block it absolutely. The Assembly eventually replaced the historic provinces with 83
départements, uniformly administered and roughly equal in area and population.
[66]
Amid the Assembly's preoccupation with constitutional affairs, the financial crisis had continued largely unaddressed, and the
deficit had only increased. Honoré Mirabeau now led the move to address this matter, and the Assembly gave Necker complete
financial dictatorship.
Fuelled by rumours of a reception for the King's bodyguards on 1
October 1789, at which the national cockade had been trampled upon, on
5 October 1789, crowds of women began to assemble at Parisian
markets. The women first marched to the Hôtel de Ville, demanding that
city officials address their concerns.
[68] The women were responding to
the harsh economic situations they faced, especially bread shortages.
They also demanded an end to royal efforts to block the National
Assembly, and for the King and his administration to move to Paris as a
sign of good faith in addressing the widespread poverty.
Getting unsatisfactory responses from city officials, as many as 7,000
women joined the march to Versailles, bringing with them cannons and a
variety of smaller weapons. Twenty thousand National Guardsmen under
the command of Lafayette responded to keep order, and members of the mob stormed the palace, killing several guards.
[69]
Lafayette ultimately persuaded the king to accede to the demand of the crowd that the monarchy relocate to Paris.
Declaration of the Rights of Man
Writing the first constitution
Women's March on Versailles
Engraving of the Women's March on
Versailles, 5 October 1789
On 6 October 1789, the King and the royal family moved from Versailles to Paris under the "protection" of the National Guards,
thus legitimising the National Assembly.
The Revolution caused a massive shift of power from the Roman Catholic
Church to the state.
[70] Under the Ancien Régime, the Church had been the
largest single landowner in the country, owning about 10% of the land in the
kingdom.
[71] The Church was exempt from paying taxes to the government,
while it levied a tithe – a 10% tax on income, often collected in the form of
crops – on the general population, only a fraction of which it then redistributed
to the poor.
[71]
Resentment towards the Church weakened its power during the opening of the
Estates General in May 1789. The Church composed the First Estate with
130,000 members of the clergy. When the National Assembly was later created
in June 1789 by the Third Estate, the clergy voted to join them, which
perpetuated the destruction of the Estates General as a governing body.
[72] The
National Assembly began to enact social and economic reform. Legislation sanctioned on 4 August 1789 abolished the Church's
authority to impose the tithe. In an attempt to address the financial crisis, the Assembly declared, on 2 November 1789, that the
property of the Church was "at the disposal of the nation".
[73] They used this property to back a new currency, the assignats.
Thus, the nation had now also taken on the responsibility of the Church, which included paying the clergy and caring for the poor,
the sick and the orphaned.
[74]
In December, the Assembly began to sell the lands to the highest bidder to raise revenue,
effectively decreasing the value of the assignats by 25% in two years.
[75]
In autumn 1789, legislation abolished monastic vows
and on 13 February 1790 all religious orders were dissolved.
[76] Monks and nuns were encouraged to return to private life and a
small percentage did eventually marry.
[77]
The Civil Constitution of the Clergy, passed on 12 July 1790, turned the remaining clergy into employees of the state. This
established an election system for parish priests and bishops and set a pay rate for the clergy. Many Catholics objected to the
election system because it effectively denied the authority of the Pope in Rome over the French Church. In October a group of 30
bishops wrote a declaration saying they could not accept that law, and this protest fueled also civilian opposition against that
law.
[59] Eventually, in November 1790, the National Assembly began to require an oath of loyalty to the Civil Constitution from
all the members of the clergy.
[77] This led to a schism between those clergy who swore the required oath and accepted the new
arrangement and those who remained loyal to the Pope. Priests swearing the oath were indicated as 'constitutional', those not
taking the oath as 'non-juring' or 'refractory' clergy.
[78] Overall, 24% of the clergy nationwide took the oath.
[79] This decree
stiffened the resistance against the state's interference with the church, especially in the west of France like in Normandy, Brittany
and the Vendée, where only few priests took the oath and the civilian population turned against the revolution.
[59]
Widespread refusal led to legislation against the clergy, "forcing them into exile, deporting them forcibly, or executing them as
traitors".
[75] Pope Pius VI never accepted the Civil Constitution of the Clergy, further isolating the Church in France.
A new Republican Calendar was established in 1793, with 10-day weeks that made it very difficult for Catholics to remember
Sundays and saints' days. Workers complained it reduced the number of first-day-of-the-week holidays from 52 to 37.
[80]
During the Reign of Terror, extreme efforts of de-Christianisation ensued, including the imprisonment and massacre of priests
and destruction of churches and religious images throughout France. An effort was made to replace the Catholic Church
altogether, with civic festivals replacing religious ones. The establishment of the Cult of Reason was the final step of radical deChristianisation. These events led to a widespread disillusionment with the Revolution and to counter-rebellions across France.
Locals often resisted de-Christianisation by attacking revolutionary agents and hiding members of the clergy who were being
Revolution and the Church
In this caricature, monks and nuns
enjoy their new freedom after the
decree of 16 February 1790.
hunted. Eventually, Robespierre and the Committee of Public Safety were forced to denounce the campaign,
[81]
replacing the
Cult of Reason with the deist but still non-Christian Cult of the Supreme Being. The Concordat of 1801 between Napoleon and
the Church ended the de-Christianisation period and established the rules for a relationship between the Catholic Church and the
French State that lasted until it was abrogated by the Third Republic via the separation of church and state on 11 December 1905.
The persecution of the Church led to a counter-revolution known as the Revolt in the Vendée.
[82]
Historians Lynn Hunt and Jack Censer argue that some French Protestants, the Huguenots, wanted an anti-Catholic regime, and
that Enlightenment thinkers such as Voltaire helped fuel this resentment.
[83] The Enlightenment philosopher Jean-Jacques
Rousseau, for example, had told French citizens that it was "manifestly contrary to the law of nature... that a handful of people
should gorge themselves with superfluities while the hungry multitude goes in want of necessities."
[84] Historian John
McManners writes, "In eighteenth-century France throne and altar were commonly spoken of as in close alliance; their
simultaneous collapse ... would one day provide the final proof of their interdependence."
[85]
Factions within the Assembly began to clarify. The aristocrat Jacques Antoine Marie de Cazalès and the abbé Jean-Sifrein Maury
led what would become known as the right wing, the opposition to revolution (this party sat on the right-hand side of the
Assembly). The "Royalist democrats" or monarchiens, allied with Necker, inclined towards organising France along lines similar
to the British constitutional model; they included Jean Joseph Mounier, the Comte de Lally-Tollendal, the comte de ClermontTonnerre, and Pierre Victor Malouet, comte de Virieu.
The "National Party", representing the centre or centre-left of the assembly, included Honoré Mirabeau, Lafayette, and Bailly;
while Adrien Duport, Barnave and Alexandre Lameth represented somewhat more extreme views. Almost alone in his radicalism
on the left was the Arras lawyer Maximilien Robespierre. Abbé Sieyès led in proposing legislation in this period and successfully
forged consensus for some time between the political centre and the left. In Paris, various committees, the mayor, the assembly of
representatives, and the individual districts each claimed authority independent of the others. The increasingly middle-class
National Guard under Lafayette also slowly emerged as a power in its own right, as did other self-generated assemblies.
The Assembly abolished the symbolic paraphernalia of the Ancien Régime –
armorial bearings, liveries, etc. – which further alienated the more conservative
nobles, and added to the ranks of the émigrés. On 14 July 1790, and for several
days following, crowds in the Champ de Mars celebrated the anniversary of the
fall of the Bastille with the Fête de la Fédération; Talleyrand performed a mass;
participants swore an oath of "fidelity to the nation, the law, and the king"; the
King and the royal family actively participated.
[86]
The electors had originally chosen the members of the Estates-General to serve
for a single year. However, by the terms of the Tennis Court Oath, the communes
had bound themselves to meet continuously until France had a constitution.
Right-wing elements now argued for a new election, but Mirabeau prevailed,
asserting that the status of the assembly had fundamentally changed, and that no new election should take place before
completing the constitution.
[87]
In late 1790 the French army was in considerable disarray. The military officer corps was largely composed of noblemen, who
found it increasingly difficult to maintain order within the ranks. In some cases, soldiers (drawn from the lower classes) had
turned against their aristocratic commanders and attacked them. At Nancy, General Bouillé successfully put down one such
rebellion, only to be accused of being anti-revolutionary for doing so. This and other such incidents spurred a mass desertion as
more and more officers defected to other countries, leaving a dearth of experienced leadership within the army.
[88]
Intrigues and radicalism
The Fête de la Fédération on 14 July
1790 celebrated the establishment of
the constitutional monarchy.
This period also saw the rise of the political "clubs" in French politics. Foremost among these was the Jacobin Club; 152
members had affiliated with the Jacobins by 10 August 1790. The Jacobin Society began as a broad, general organisation for
political debate, but as it grew in members, various factions developed with widely differing views. Several of these factions
broke off to form their own clubs, such as the Club of '89.
[89]
Meanwhile, the Assembly continued to work on developing a constitution. A new judicial organisation made all magistracies
temporary and independent of the throne. The legislators abolished hereditary offices, except for the monarchy itself. Jury trials
started for criminal cases. The King would have the unique power to propose war, with the legislature then deciding whether to
declare war. The Assembly abolished all internal trade barriers and suppressed guilds, masterships, and workers' organisations:
any individual gained the right to practise a trade through the purchase of a license; strikes became illegal.
[90]
Louis XVI was increasingly dismayed by the direction of the revolution. His
brother, the Comte d'Artois and his queen, Marie Antoinette, urged a stronger
stance against the revolution and support for the émigrés, while he was resistant
to any course that would see him openly side with foreign powers against the
Assembly. Eventually, fearing for his own safety and that of his family, he
decided to flee Paris to the Austrian border, having been assured of the loyalty of
the border garrisons.
Louis cast his lot with General Bouillé, who condemned both the emigration and
the Assembly, and promised him refuge and support in his camp at Montmédy.
On the night of 20 June 1791 the royal family fled the Tuileries Palace dressed
as servants, while their servants dressed as nobles.
However, late the next day, the King was recognised and arrested at Varennes and returned to Paris. The Assembly provisionally
suspended the King. He and Queen Marie Antoinette remained held under guard.
[91] The King's flight had a profound impact on
public opinion, turning popular sentiment further against the clergy and nobility, and built momentum for the institution of a
constitutional monarchy.
[91]
As most of the Assembly still favoured a constitutional monarchy rather than a republic, the various groups reached a
compromise which left Louis XVI as little more than a figurehead: he was forced to swear an oath to the constitution, and a
decree declared that retracting the oath, heading an army for the purpose of making war upon the nation, or permitting anyone to
do so in his name would amount to abdication.
However, Jacques Pierre Brissot drafted a petition, insisting that in the eyes of the nation Louis XVI was deposed since his flight.
An immense crowd gathered in the Champ de Mars to sign the petition. Georges Danton and Camille Desmoulins gave fiery
speeches. The Assembly called for the municipal authorities to "preserve public order". The National Guard under Lafayette's
command confronted the crowd. The soldiers responded to a barrage of stones by firing into the crowd, killing between 13 and 50
people.
[92] The incident cost Lafayette and his National Guard much public support.
In the wake of the massacre the authorities closed many of the patriotic clubs, as well as radical newspapers such as Jean-Paul
Marat's L'Ami du Peuple. Danton fled to England; Desmoulins and Marat went into hiding.
[93]
Meanwhile, in August 1791, a new threat arose from abroad: the King's brother-in-law Holy Roman Emperor Leopold II, King
Frederick William II of Prussia, and the King's brother Charles-Philippe, comte d'Artois, issued the Declaration of Pillnitz,
declaring their intention to bring the French king in the position "to consolidate the basis of a monarchical government" and that
Royal flight to Varennes
The return of the royal family to Paris
on 25 June 1791, after their failed
flight to Varennes
Completing the constitution
they were preparing their own troops for action,
[94] hinting at an invasion of France on the King's behalf.
[95]
Although Leopold himself sought to avoid war and made the declaration to satisfy the Comte d'Artois and the other émigrés, the
reaction within France was ferocious. The French people expressed no respect for the dictates of foreign monarchs, and the threat
of force merely hastened their militarisation.
[96]
Even before the Flight to Varennes, the Assembly members had determined to debar themselves from the legislature that would
succeed them, the Legislative Assembly. They now gathered the various constitutional laws they had passed into a single
constitution, and submitted it to the recently restored Louis XVI, who accepted it, writing "I engage to maintain it at home, to
defend it from all attacks from abroad, and to cause its execution by all the means it places at my disposal". The King addressed
the Assembly and received enthusiastic applause from members and spectators. With this capstone, the National Constituent
Assembly adjourned in a final session on 30 September 1791.
[97]
The Legislative Assembly first met on 1 October 1791, elected by those 4 million men – out of a population of 6 million men
over the age of 25 – who paid a certain minimum amount of taxes.
[98] Under the Constitution of 1791, France would function as
a constitutional monarchy. The King had to share power with the elected Legislative Assembly, but he retained his royal veto and
the ability to select ministers. Early on, the King vetoed legislation that threatened the émigrés with death and that decreed that
every non-juring clergyman must take within eight days the civic oath mandated by the Civil Constitution of the Clergy. Over the
course of a year, such disagreements would lead to a constitutional crisis.
Late in 1791, a group of Assembly members who propagated war against Austria and Prussia was, after some remark of politician
Maximilien Robespierre, henceforth indicated as the 'Girondins', although not all of them really came from the southern province
of Gironde. A group around Robespierre – later indicated as 'Montagnards' or 'Jacobins' – pleaded against that war; this
opposition between those groups would harden and embitter in the next 1
1
2
years.
[94]
In response to the threat of war of August 1791 from Austria and Prussia, leaders of the Assembly saw such a war as a means to
strengthen support for their revolutionary government, and the French people as well as the Assembly thought that they would
win a war against Austria and Prussia. On 20 April 1792, France declared war on Austria.
[94][99] Late April 1792, France invaded
and conquered the Austrian Netherlands (roughly present-day Belgium and Luxembourg).
[94]
The Legislative Assembly degenerated into chaos before October 1792. Francis Charles Montague concluded in 1911, "In the
attempt to govern, the Assembly failed altogether. It left behind an empty treasury, an undisciplined army and navy, and a people
debauched by safe and successful riot."
[100]
Lyons argues that the Constituent Assembly had liberal, rational, and individualistic goals that seem to have been largely
achieved by 1791. However, it failed to consolidate the gains of the Revolution, which continued with increasing momentum and
escalating radicalism until 1794. Lyons identifies six reasons for this escalation. First, the king did not accept the limitations on
his powers, and mobilised support from foreign monarchs to reverse it. Second, the effort to overthrow the Roman Catholic
Church, sell off its lands, close its monasteries and its charitable operations, and replace it with an unpopular makeshift system
caused deep consternation among the pious and the peasants. Third, the economy was badly hurt by the issuance of ever
increasing amounts of paper money (assignats), which caused more and more inflation; the rising prices hurt the urban poor who
spent most of their income on food. Fourth, the rural peasants demanded liberation from the heavy system of taxes and dues owed
to local landowners. Fifth, the working class of Paris and the other cities – the sans-culottes – resented the fact that the property
owners and professionals had taken all the spoils of the Revolution. Finally, foreign powers threatened to overthrow the
Revolution, which responded with extremism and systematic violence in its own defence.
[101]
Legislative Assembly (Oct. 1791 – Sept. 1792)
Failure of the constitutional monarchy
In the summer of 1792, all of Paris was against the king, and hoped that the Assembly would depose the king, but the Assembly
hesitated.
[102] At dawn of 10 August 1792, a large, angry crowd of Parisians and soldiers from all over France,
[102]
insurgents
and popular militias, supported by the revolutionary Paris Commune,
[103] marched on the Tuileries Palace where the king
resided,
[102] assailed the Palace and killed the Swiss Guards who were assigned for the protection of the king.
[103]
Around 8:00 am the king decided to leave his palace and seek safety with his wife and children in the Assembly that was gathered
in permanent session in Salle du Manège opposite to the Tuileries.
[102] The royal family became prisoners.
[104] After 11:00 am, a
rump session of the Legislative Assembly 'temporarily relieved the king from his task'
[102] and thus suspended the monarchy;
little more than a third of the deputies were present, almost all of them Jacobins.
[104]
In reaction, on 19 August the Prussian
general Duke of Brunswick invaded France
[105] and besieged Longwy.
[106]
On 26 August, the Assembly decreed the deportation of refractory priests
in the west of France, as "causes of danger to the fatherland", to
destinations like French Guiana. In reaction, peasants in the Vendée took
over a town, in another step toward civil war.
[106] What remained of a
national government depended on the support of the insurrectionary
Commune. With enemy troops advancing, the Commune looked for
potential traitors in Paris.
[107][108]
On 2, 3 and 4 September 1792, hundreds of Parisians, supporters of the
revolution, infuriated by Verdun being captured by the Prussian enemy, the
uprisings in the west of France, and rumours that the incarcerated prisoners
in Paris were conspiring with the foreign enemy, raided the Parisian
prisons and murdered between 1,000 and 1,500 prisoners, many of them
Catholic priests but also common criminals. Jean-Paul Marat, a political ally of Robespierre, in an open letter on 3 September
incited the rest of France to follow the Parisian example; Robespierre kept a low profile in regard to the murder orgy.
[109] The
Assembly and the city council of Paris (la Commune) seemed inept and hardly motivated to call a halt to the unleashed
bloodshed.
[102]
The Commune sent gangs of National Guardsmen and fédérés into the prisons, and they killed 10 or more victims, mostly
nonjuring priests. The Commune then sent a circular letter to the other cities of France inviting them to follow this example, and
many cities launched their own massacres of prisoners and priests in the "September massacres". The Assembly could offer only
feeble resistance. In October, however, there was a counterattack accusing the instigators, especially Marat, of being terrorists.
This led to a political contest between the more moderate Girondists and the more radical Montagnards inside the Convention,
with rumour used as a weapon by both sides. The Girondists lost ground when they seemed too conciliatory. But the pendulum
swung again and after Thermidor, the men who had endorsed the massacres were denounced as terrorists.
[107][108]
Chaos persisted until the Convention, elected by universal male suffrage and charged with writing a new constitution, met on 20
September 1792 and became the new de facto government of France. The next day it abolished the monarchy and declared a
republic. The following day – 22 September 1792, the first morning of the new Republic – was later retroactively adopted as the
beginning of Year One of the French Republican Calendar.
[110]
From 1793 to 1815 France was engaged almost continuously (with two short breaks) in wars with Britain and a changing
coalition of other major powers. The many French successes led to the spread of the French revolutionary ideals into
neighbouring countries, and indeed across much of Europe. However, the final defeat of Napoleon in 1814 (and 1815) brought a
Constitutional crisis
On 10 August 1792 the Paris Commune
stormed the Tuileries Palace and killed the
Swiss Guards.
French Revolutionary Wars and Napoleonic Wars
reaction that reversed some – but not all – of the revolutionary achievements in France and Europe. The Bourbons were restored
to the throne, with the brother of King Louis XVI becoming King Louis XVIII.
The politics of the period inevitably drove France towards war with Austria and
its allies. The King, many of the Feuillants, and the Girondins specifically
wanted to wage war. The King (and many Feuillants with him) expected war
would increase his personal popularity; he also foresaw an opportunity to exploit
any defeat: either result would make him stronger. The Girondins wanted to
export the Revolution throughout Europe and, by extension, to defend the
Revolution within France. The forces opposing war were much weaker. Barnave
and his supporters among the Feuillants feared a war they thought France had
little chance to win and which they feared might lead to greater radicalisation of
the revolution. On the other end of the political spectrum Robespierre opposed a
war on two grounds, fearing that it would strengthen the monarchy and military
at the expense of the revolution, and that it would incur the anger of ordinary
people in Austria and elsewhere. The Austrian emperor Leopold II, brother of Marie Antoinette, may have wished to avoid war,
but he died on 1 March 1792.
[111] France preemptively declared war on Austria (20 April 1792) and Prussia joined on the
Austrian side a few weeks later. The invading Prussian army faced little resistance until it was checked at the Battle of Valmy (20
September 1792) and forced to withdraw.
The new-born Republic followed up on this success with a series of victories in
Belgium and the Rhineland in the fall of 1792. The French armies defeated the
Austrians at the Battle of Jemappes on 6 November, and had soon taken over
most of the Austrian Netherlands. This brought them into conflict with Britain
and the Dutch Republic, which wished to preserve the independence of the
southern Netherlands from France. After the French king's execution in January
1793, these powers, along with Spain and most other European states, joined the
war against France. Almost immediately, French forces suffered defeats on many
fronts, and were driven out of their newly conquered territories in the spring of
1793. At the same time, the republican regime was forced to deal with rebellions
against its authority in much of western and southern France. But the allies failed
to take advantage of French disunity, and by the autumn of 1793 the republican
regime had defeated most of the internal rebellions and halted the allied advance
into France itself.
This stalemate ended in the summer of 1794 with dramatic French victories. The French defeated the allied army at the Battle of
Fleurus, leading to a full Allied withdrawal from the Austrian Netherlands. They pushed the allies to the east bank of the Rhine,
allowing France, by the beginning of 1795, to conquer the Dutch Republic itself. The House of Orange was expelled and replaced
by the Batavian Republic, a French satellite state. These victories led to the collapse of the anti-French coalition. Prussia, having
effectively abandoned the coalition in the fall of 1794, made peace with revolutionary France at Basel in April 1795, and soon
thereafter Spain also made peace with France. Britain and Austria were the only major powers to remain at war with France.
Although the French Revolution had a dramatic impact in numerous areas of Europe, the French colonies felt a particular
influence. As the Martinican author Aimé Césaire put it, "there was in each French colony a specific revolution, that occurred on
the occasion of the French Revolution, in tune with it."
[112] The Haitian Revolution (Saint Domingue) became a central example
of slave uprisings in French colonies.
French victory over the Prussians at
the Battle of Valmy on 20 September
1792
The French Revolutionary Army
defeated the combined armies of
Austrians, Dutch and British at
Fleurus in June 1794.
Colonial uprisings
Late in August 1792, elections were held, now under male universal suffrage, for
the new National Convention,
[109] which replaced the Legislative Assembly on
20 September 1792. From the start the Convention suffered from the bitter
division between a group around Robespierre, Danton and Marat, referred to as
'Montagnards' or 'Jacobins' or the 'left', and a group referred to as 'Girondins' or
the 'right'. But the majority of the representatives, referred to as 'la Plaine', were
member of neither of those two antagonistic groups and managed to preserve some speed in the Convention's debates.
[109][113]
Immediately on 21 September the Convention abolished the monarchy, making France the French First Republic.
[102] A new
French Republican Calendar was introduced to replace the Christian Gregorian calendar, renaming the year 1792 as year 1 of the
Republic.
[58]
With wars against Prussia and Austria having started earlier in 1792, France also declared war on the Kingdom of Great Britain
and the Dutch Republic in November 1792.
[113]
In the course of 1793, the Holy Roman Empire, the kings of Portugal and Naples
and the Grand-Duke of Tuscany declared war against France.
[114]
In the Brunswick Manifesto, the Imperial and Prussian armies threatened
retaliation on the French population if it were to resist their advance or the
reinstatement of the monarchy. This among other things made Louis
appear to be conspiring with the enemies of France. On 17 January 1793
Louis was condemned to death for "conspiracy against the public liberty
and the general safety" by a close majority in Convention: 361 voted to
execute the king, 288 voted against, and another 72 voted to execute him
subject to a variety of delaying conditions. The former Louis XVI, now
simply named Citoyen Louis Capet (Citizen Louis Capet) was executed by
guillotine on 21 January 1793 on the Place de la Révolution, former Place
Louis XV, now called the Place de la Concorde.
[115] Conservatives across
Europe were horrified and monarchies called for war against revolutionary
France.
[116][117]
When war went badly, prices rose and the sans-culottes – poor labourers and radical Jacobins – rioted; counter-revolutionary
activities began in some regions. This encouraged the Jacobins to seize power through a parliamentary coup, backed up by force
effected by mobilising public support against the Girondist faction, and by utilising the mob power of the Parisian sans-culottes.
An alliance of Jacobin and sans-culottes elements thus became the effective centre of the new government. Policy became
considerably more radical, as "The Law of the Maximum" set food prices and led to executions of offenders.
[118]
The price control policy was coeval with the rise to power of the Committee of Public Safety and the Reign of Terror. The
Committee first attempted to set the price for only a limited number of grain products, but by September 1793 it expanded the
"maximum" to cover all foodstuffs and a long list of other goods.
[119] Widespread shortages and famine ensued. The Committee
reacted by sending dragoons into the countryside to arrest farmers and seize crops. This temporarily solved the problem in Paris,
Slave revolt in Saint Domingue
First Republic
National Convention (Sept. 1792–95)
Execution of Louis XVI
Execution of Louis XVI in what is now the
Place de la Concorde, facing the empty
pedestal where the statue of his
grandfather, Louis XV, had stood
Economy
but the rest of the country suffered. By the spring of 1794, forced collection of food was not sufficient to feed even Paris, and the
days of the Committee were numbered. When Robespierre went to the guillotine in July 1794, the crowd jeered, "There goes the
dirty maximum!"
[120]
'Reign of Terror' is a label used by some historians for (part of) French history
between July 1789 and July 1794, but those historians adhere that label to
different periods.
The Committee of Public Safety came under the control of Maximilien
Robespierre, a lawyer, and the Jacobins unleashed the Reign of Terror (1793–
94). According to archival records, at least 16,594 people died under the
guillotine or otherwise after accusations of counter-revolutionary activities.
[121]
As many as 40,000 accused prisoners may have been summarily executed
without trial or died awaiting trial.
[121][122]
On 2 June 1793, Paris sections – encouraged by the enragés ("enraged ones")
Jacques Roux and Jacques Hébert – took over the Convention, calling for
administrative and political purges, a low fixed price for bread, and a limitation
of the electoral franchise to sans-culottes alone.
[123] With the backing of the
National Guard, they managed to persuade the Convention to arrest 31 Girondin
leaders, including Jacques Pierre Brissot. Following these arrests, the Jacobins
gained control of the Committee of Public Safety on 10 June, installing the
revolutionary dictatorship.
[124]
On 24 June, the Convention adopted the first republican constitution of France, variously referred to as the French Constitution of
1793 or Constitution of the Year I. It was progressive and radical in several respects, in particular by establishing universal male
suffrage. It was ratified by public referendum, but normal legal processes were suspended before it could take effect.
[125]
On 13 July, the assassination of Jean-Paul Marat – a Jacobin leader and journalist known for his bloodthirsty rhetoric – by
Charlotte Corday, a Girondin, resulted in further increase of Jacobin political influence. Georges Danton, the leader of the August
1792 uprising against the king, undermined by several political reversals, was removed from the Committee and Robespierre,
"the Incorruptible", became its most influential member as it moved to take radical measures against the Revolution's domestic
and foreign enemies.
[124]
The Reign of Terror ultimately weakened the revolutionary government, while temporarily ending internal opposition. The
Jacobins expanded the size of the army, and Carnot replaced many aristocratic officers with soldiers who had demonstrated their
patriotism, if not their ability. The Republican army repulsed the Austrians, Prussians, British, and Spanish. At the end of 1793,
the army began to prevail and revolts were defeated with ease. The Ventôse Decrees (February–March 1794) proposed the
confiscation of the goods of exiles and opponents of the Revolution, and their redistribution to the needy. However, this policy
was never fully implemented.
[126]
Three approaches attempt to explain the Reign of Terror imposed by the Jacobins in 1793–94. The older Marxist interpretation
argued the Terror was a necessary response to outside threats (in terms of other countries going to war with France) and internal
threats (of traitors inside France threatening to frustrate the Revolution). In this interpretation, as expressed by the Marxist
historian Albert Soboul, Robespierre and the sans-culottes were heroes for defending the revolution from its enemies. François
Furet has argued that foreign threats had little to do with the terror.
[127]
Instead, the extreme violence was an inherent part of the
intense ideological commitment of the revolutionaries – their utopian goals required exterminating opposition. Soboul's Marxist
interpretation has been largely abandoned by most historians since the 1990s. Hanson (2009) takes a middle position, recognising
Reign of Terror
Queen Marie Antoinette on the way
to the guillotine on 16 October 1793
(drawing by Jacques-Louis David)
the importance of the foreign enemies, and sees the terror as a contingency that was caused by the interaction of a series of
complex events and the foreign threat. Hanson says the terror was not inherent in the ideology of the Revolution, but that
circumstances made it necessary.
[128]
Introduction of a nationwide conscription for the army in February 1793
was the spark that in March made the Vendée, already rebellious since
1790 because of the changes imposed on the Roman Catholic Church by
the Civil Constitution of the Clergy (1790),
[129]
ignite into civil (guerrilla)
war against the French Revolutionary government in
Paris.
[113][130][131][132]
North of the Loire, similar revolts were started by the so-called Chouans
(royalist rebels).
[133]
In March 1793, France also declared war on Spain,
the Vendée rebels won some victories against Paris, and the French army
was defeated in Belgium by Austria with the French general Dumouriez
defecting to the Austrians: the French Republic's survival was now in real
danger.
[113] Facing local revolts and foreign invasions in both the East and
West of the country, the most urgent government business was the war.
[134] On 6 April 1793, to prevent the Convention from
losing itself in abstract debate and to streamline government decisions, the Comité de salut public (Committee of Public
Prosperity) was created, as executive government which was accountable to the Convention.
[113]
In April 1793, the Girondins indicted Jean-Paul Marat before the Revolutionary Tribunal for 'attempting to destroy the
sovereignty of the people' and 'preaching plunder and massacre', referring to his behaviour during the September 1792 Paris
massacres. Marat was quickly acquitted but the incident further exacerbated the 'Girondins' versus 'Montagnards' party strife in
the Convention.
[113]
Jacques Hébert, Convention member leaning to the 'Montagnards' group, on 24 May 1793 called on the sans-culottes to rise in
revolt against the "henchmen of Capet [the ex-king] and Dumouriez [the defected general]". Hébert was arrested by a Convention
committee. While that committee consisted only of members from la Plaine and the Girondins, the anger of the sans-culottes was
directed towards the Girondins. 25 May, a delegation of la Commune (the Paris city council) protested against Hébert's arrest. The
Convention's President Isnard, a Girondin, answered them: "Members of la Commune [...] If by your incessant rebellions
something befalls to the representatives of the nation, I declare, in the name of France, that Paris will be totally obliterated".
[113]
On 2 June 1793, the Convention's session in Tuileries Palace degenerated into chaos and pandemonium. Crowds of people
swarmed in and around the palace. Incessant screaming from the public galleries suggested that all of Paris was against the
Girondins. Petitions circulated, indicting and condemning 22 Girondins. Barère, member of the Comité de salut public,
suggested: to end this division which is harming the Republic, the Girondin leaders should lay down their offices voluntarily. Late
that night after much more tumultuous debate, dozens of Girondins had resigned and left the Convention.
[113]
By the summer of 1793, most French departments in one way or another opposed the central Paris government. Girondins who
fled from Paris after 2 June led those revolts.
[135]
In Brittany's countryside, the people rejecting the Civil Constitution of the
Clergy of 1790 had taken to a guerrilla warfare known as Chouannerie.
[129] But generally, the French opposition against 'Paris'
had now evolved into a plain struggle for power over the country
[135] against the 'Montagnards' around Robespierre and Marat
Internal and external wars
The War in the Vendée was a royalist
uprising that was suppressed by the
republican forces in 1796.
Girondins expelled
Abounding civil war
now dominating Paris.
[129]
In June–July 1793, Bordeaux, Marseilles, Brittany, Caen and the rest of
Normandy gathered armies to march on Paris and against 'the
revolution'.
[130][129]
In July, Lyon guillotined the deposed 'Montagnard' head of
the city council.
[129] Barère, member of the Committee of Public Prosperity, on
1 August incited the Convention to tougher measures against the Vendée, at war
with Paris since March: "We'll have peace only when no Vendée remains [...]
we'll have to exterminate that rebellious people".
[130]
In August, Convention
troops besieged Lyon.
[129]
On 17 August 1793, the Convention voted for general conscription, the levée en
masse, which mobilised all citizens to serve as soldiers or suppliers in the war
effort.
[134] The consecutive successes in the French revolutionary wars earned
Lazare Carnot the title 'Organizer of Victory'.
[136][137]
In August–September 1793, militants urged the Convention to do more to quell the counter-revolution. A delegation of the
Commune (Paris city council) suggested to form revolutionary armies to arrest hoarders and conspirators.
[129] Barère, member of
the Committee of Public Prosperity – the de facto executive government – ever since April 1793,
[135] among others on 5
September reacted favorably, saying: let's "make terror the order of the day!"
[129] The National Convention on 9 September voted
to establish sans-culottes paramilitary forces, revolutionary armies, and to force farmers to surrender grain demanded by the
government.
[134] On 17 September, the Law of Suspects was passed, which ordered the arrest of suspected counterrevolutionaries and people who had revealed themselves as "enemies of freedom".
[138] This decree was one of the causes for
some 17,000 legal death sentences until the end of July 1794, an average of 370 per week – reason for historians to label those 10
1
2 months 'the (Reign of) Terror'.
[139][140]
On 19 September the Vendée rebels again defeated a Republican Convention army.
[130] On 29 September, the Convention
extended price limits from grain and bread to other household goods and established the Law of the Maximum, intended to
prevent price gouging and supply food to the cities.
[134]
On 1 October Barère repeated his plea to subdue the Vendée: "refuge of fanaticism, where priests have raised their altars".
[130]
In
October the Convention troops captured Lyon and reinstated a Montagnard government there.
[129]
Criteria for bringing someone before the Revolutionary Tribunal, created March 1793, had always been vast and vague.
[135] By
August, political disagreement seemed enough to be summoned before the Tribunal; appeal against a Tribunal verdict was
impossible.
[129] Late August 1793, an army general had been guillotined on the accusation of choosing too timid strategies on the
battlefield.
[129] Mid-October, the widowed former queen Marie Antoinette was on trial for a long list of charges such as "teaching
[her husband] Louis Capet the art of dissimulation" and incest with her son, she too was guillotined.
[129]
In October 1793, 21
former 'Girondins' Convention members who hadn't left Paris after June were convicted to death and executed, on the charge of
verbally supporting the preparation of an insurrection in Caen by fellow-Girondins.
[129]
17 October 1793, the 'blue' Republican army near Cholet defeated the 'white' Vendéan insubordinate army and all surviving
Vendée residents, counting in tens of thousands, fled over the river Loire north into Brittany.
[130] A Convention's representative
on mission in Nantes commissioned in October to pacify the region did so by simply drowning prisoners in the river Loire: until
February 1794 he drowned at least 4,000.
[135]
The assassination of Jean-Paul
Marat by Girondist sympathizer
Charlotte Corday on 13 July 1793
Suppressing and retaliating the revolts
Meanwhile, the instalment of the Republican Calendar on 24 October 1793
caused an anti-clerical uprising. Hébert's and Chaumette's atheist
movement campaigned to dechristianise society. The climax was reached
with the celebration of the flame of Reason in Notre Dame Cathedral on 10
November.
[141]
By November 1793, the revolts in Normandy, Bordeaux and Lyon were
overcome, in December also that in Toulon.
[129] Two representatives on
mission sent to punish Lyon between November 1793 and April 1794
executed 2,000 people to death by guillotine or firing-squad.
[135] The Vendéan
army since October roaming through Brittany on 12 December 1793 again ran
up against Republican troops and saw 10,000 of its rebels perish, meaning the
end of this once threatening army.
[135]
Some historians claim that after that Vendéan defeat Convention Republic
armies in 1794 massacred 117,000 Vendéan civilians to obliterate the Vendéan
people, but others contest that claim.
[142] Some historians consider the total civil
war to have lasted until 1796 with a toll of 170,000
[143] or 450,000
lives.
[144][145]
Because of the extremely brutal forms that the Republican repression took in
many places, historians such as Reynald Secher have called the event a
"genocide".
[146][147][148] Historian François Furet concluded that the repression in the Vendee "not only revealed massacre and
destruction on an unprecedented scale but also a zeal so violent that it has bestowed as its legacy much of the region's
identity."
[149]
The guillotine became the tool for a string of executions. Louis XVI had already been guillotined before the start of the terror;
Queen Marie Antoinette, Barnave, Bailly, Brissot and other leading Girondins, Philippe Égalité (despite his vote for the death of
the King), Madame Roland and many others were executed by guillotine. The Revolutionary Tribunal summarily condemned
thousands of people to death by the guillotine, while mobs beat other victims to death.
At the peak of the terror, the slightest hint of counter-revolutionary
thoughts or activities (or, as in the case of Jacques Hébert, revolutionary
zeal exceeding that of those in power) could place one under suspicion,
and trials did not always proceed according to contemporary standards of
due process. Sometimes people died for their political opinions or actions,
but many for little reason beyond mere suspicion, or because some others
had a stake in getting rid of them. Most of the victims received an
unceremonious trip to the guillotine in an open wooden cart (the tumbrel).
In the rebellious provinces, the government representatives had unlimited
authority and some engaged in extreme repressions and abuses. For
example, Jean-Baptiste Carrier became notorious for the Noyades ("drownings") he organised in Nantes;
[150] his conduct was
judged unacceptable even by the Jacobin government and he was recalled.
[151]
Mass shootings at Nantes in 1793
Shootings and massacres by the
Infernal columns under Louis Marie
Turreau
Profuse executions
Nine emigrants go to the guillotine in 1793
Guillotining politicians
Maximilien Robespierre, since July 1793 member of the Committee of Public Prosperity,
[130] on 5 February 1794 in a speech in
the Convention identified Jacques Hébert and his faction as "internal enemies" working toward the triumph of tyranny.
[135] After
a dubious trial Hébert and some allies, charged with counter-revolutionary activities,
[152] were guillotined in March.
[135]
On 5 April, again at the instigation of Robespierre, Danton, a moderate Montagnard, and 13 associated politicians, charged with
counter-revolutionary activities,
[152] were executed.
[135] A week later again 19 politicians. This hushed the Convention deputies:
if henceforth they disagreed with Robespierre they hardly dared to speak out.
[135]
On 7 June 1794, Robespierre advocated a new state religion and
recommended the Convention acknowledge the existence of the "Supreme
Being".
[152] A law enacted on 10 June 1794 (22 Prairial II) further
streamlined criminal procedures: if the Revolutionary Tribunal saw
sufficient proof of someone being an "enemy of the people" a counsel for
defence would not be allowed. The frequency of guillotine executions in
Paris now rose from on average three a day to an average of 29 a day.
[135]
Meanwhile, France's external wars were going well, with victories over
Austrian and British troops in May and June 1794 opening up Belgium for
French conquest.
[135] But cooperation within the Committee of Public
Prosperity, since April 1793 the de facto executive government, started to
break down. On 29 June 1794, three colleagues of Robespierre at 'the
Committee' called him a dictator in his face – Robespierre baffled left the meeting. This encouraged other Convention members
to also defy Robespierre. On 26 July, a long and vague speech of Robespierre wasn't met with thunderous applause as usual but
with hostility; some deputies yelled that Robespierre should have the courage to say which deputies he deemed necessary to be
killed next, what Robespierre refused to do.
[135]
In the Convention session of 27 July 1794 (9 Thermidor of Year II), Robespierre and his allies hardly managed to say a word as
they were constantly interrupted by a row of critics such as Tallien, Billaud-Varenne, Vadier, Barère and acting president Thuriot.
Finally, even Robespierre's own voice failed on him: it faltered at his last attempt to beg permission to speak.
[135]
A decree was adopted to arrest Robespierre, Saint-Just and Couthon. 28
July, they and 19 other leading Jacobins were beheaded. 29 July, again 70
Parisians were guillotined.
[135]
Subsequently, the Law of 22 Prairial (10 June 1794) was repealed, and the
'Girondins' expelled from the Convention in June 1793, if not dead yet,
were reinstated as Convention deputies.
[153]
After July 1794, the French government was dominated by 'Girondins',
who indulged in revenge and violence and death sentences against people
associated with the previous 'Jacobin'/'Montagnard' governments around
Robespierre and Marat, in what was known as the White Terror.
[154] The
Jacobin Club was closed and banned.
[155][156]
After July 1794, most civilians henceforth ignored the Republican calendar and returned to the traditional seven-day weeks. The
government in a law of 21 February 1795 set steps of return to freedom of religion and reconciliation with the since 1790
refractory Catholic priests, but any religious signs outside churches or private homes, such as crosses, clerical garb, bell ringing,
The Festival of the Supreme Being on 8
June 1794
The execution of Robespierre on 28 July
1794 marked the end of the Reign of
Terror.
Disregarding the lower classes
remained prohibited. When the people's enthusiasm for attending church grew to unexpected levels the government backed out
and in October 1795 again, like in 1790, required all priests to swear oaths on the Republic.
[153]
In the very cold winter of 1794–95, the French army was demanding more and more bread. It was getting scarce in Paris, as was
wood to keep houses warm. As a result, in an echo of the October 1789 March on Versailles, on 1 April 1795 (12 Germinal III) a
mostly female crowd marched on the Convention calling for bread. But no Convention member sympathized, and they told the
women to return home. Again in May, a crowd of 20,000 men and 40,000 women invaded the Convention and killed a deputy in
the halls, but again they failed to make the Convention take notice of the needs of the lower classes. Instead, the Convention
banned women from all political assemblies, and deputies who had stood with this insurrection were sentenced to death: such
allegiance between parliament and street fighting was no longer tolerated.
[153]
Late 1794, France conquered present-day Belgium.
[157]
In January 1795 they subdued the Dutch Republic with full consent and
cooperation of the influential Dutch patriottenbeweging ('patriots movement'), resulting in the Batavian Republic, a satellite and
puppet state of France.
[158][159]
In April 1795, France concluded a peace agreement with Prussia,
[160]
later that year peace was
agreed with Spain.
The Convention on 22 August 1795 approved the new "Constitution of the Year III". A French plebiscite ratified the document,
with about 1,057,000 votes for the constitution and 49,000 against.
[161] The results of the voting were announced on 23
September 1795, and the new constitution took effect on 27 September 1795.
[161] The new constitution created the Directoire
(English: Directory) with a bicameral legislature.
The first chamber was called the 'Council of 500' initiating the laws, the second the 'Council of Elders' reviewing and approving
or not the passed laws. Each year, one-third of the chambers was to be renewed. The executive power was in the hands of the five
members (directors) of the Directory with a five-year mandate.
[153]
The early directors did not much understand the nation they were governing; they especially had an innate inability to see
Catholicism as anything else than counter-revolutionary and royalist. Local administrators had a better sense of people's
priorities, and one of them wrote to the minister of the interior: "Give back the crosses, the church bells, the Sundays, and
everyone will cry: ’vive la République!’"
[153]
The Directory denounced the arbitrary executions of the Reign of Terror, but itself engaged in large scale illegal repressions, as
well as large-scale massacres of civilians in the Vendee uprising. The economy continued in bad condition, with the poor
especially hurt by the high cost of food.
State finances were in total disarray; the government could only cover its expenses through the plunder and the tribute of foreign
countries. If peace were made, the armies would return home and the directors would have to face the exasperation of the rankand-file who had lost their livelihood, as well as the ambition of generals who could, in a moment, brush them aside. Barras and
Rewbell were notoriously corrupt themselves and screened corruption in others. The patronage of the directors was ill-bestowed,
and the general maladministration heightened their unpopularity.
[162]
The constitutional party in the legislature desired toleration of the nonjuring clergy, the repeal of the laws against the relatives of
the émigrés, and some merciful discrimination towards the émigrés themselves. The directors baffled all such endeavours. On the
other hand, the socialist conspiracy of Babeuf was easily quelled. Little was done to improve the finances, and the assignats
continued to fall in value until each note was worth less than the paper it was printed on; debtors easily paid off their debts.
[163] A
series of financial reforms started by the Directory finally took effect after it fell from power.
The Directory (1795–99)
Evaluation
Although committed to Republicanism, the Directory distrusted
democracy. Historians have seldom praised the Directory; it was a
government of self-interest rather than virtue, thus losing any claim on
idealism. It never had a strong base of popular support; when elections
were held, most of its candidates were defeated. Its achievements were
minor.
[164][165] Brown stresses the turn towards dictatorship and the
failure of liberal democracy under the Directory, blaming it on, "chronic
violence, ambivalent forms of justice, and repeated recourse to heavyhanded repression."
[166]
The election system was complex and designed to insulate the government
from grass roots democracy. The parliament consisted of two houses: the
Conseil des Cinq-Cents (Council of the Five Hundred) with 500
representatives, and the Conseil des Anciens (Council of Elders) with 250
senators. Executive power went to five "directors," named annually by the
Conseil des Anciens from a list submitted by the Conseil des Cinq-Cents.
The universal male suffrage of 1793 was replaced by limited suffrage
based on property. The voters had only a limited choice because the
electoral rules required two-thirds of the seats go to members of the old
Convention, no matter how few popular votes they received.
[167]
Citizens of the war-weary nation wanted stability, peace, and an end to
conditions that at times bordered on chaos. Nevertheless, those on the right
who wished to restore the monarchy by putting Louis XVIII on the throne,
and those on the left who would have renewed the Reign of Terror, tried
but failed to overthrow the Directory. The earlier atrocities had made
confidence or goodwill between parties impossible.
[168] The Directory
régime met opposition from Jacobins on the left and royalists on the right
(the latter were secretly subsidised by the British government). The army
suppressed riots and counter-revolutionary activities. In this way the army
and in particular Napoleon gained total power.
[169]
Parliamentary elections in the spring of 1797, for one-third of the seats in Parliament, resulted in considerable gains for the
royalists,
[153] who seemed poised to take control of the Directory in the next elections. This frightened the republican directors
and they reacted, in the Coup of 18 Fructidor V (4 September 1797), by purging all the winners banishing 57 leaders to certain
death in Guiana, removing two supposedly pro-royalist directors, and closing 42 newspapers.
The new, 'corrected' government, still strongly convinced that Catholicism and royalism were equally dangerous to the Republic,
started a fresh campaign to promote the Republican calendar (officially introduced in 1792), with its ten-day week, and tried to
hallow the tenth day, décadi, as substitute for the Christian Sunday. Not only citizens opposed and even mocked such decrees,
also local government officials refused to enforce such laws.
[153]
France was still waging wars, in 1798 in Egypt, Switzerland, Rome, Ireland, Belgium and against the US, in 1799 in BadenWürttemberg. When the elections of 1798 were again carried by the opposition, the Directory used the army to imprison and exile
the opposition leaders and close their newspapers. Increasingly it depended on the Army in foreign and domestic affairs, as well
as finance.
A small French force tried to invade Britain
in February 1797. This contemporary
image shows troops landing near
Fishguard in Wales. The troops were later
forced to surrender.
General Napoleon and his troops crossing
the bridge of Arcole in 1796
Coups d'état
In 1799, when the French armies abroad experienced some setbacks, the
newly chosen director Sieyes considered a new overhaul necessary for the
Directory's form of government because in his opinion it needed a stronger
executive. Together with successful general Napoleon Bonaparte who had
just returned to France, Sieyes began preparing another coup d'état, which
took place on 9–10 November 1799 (18–19 Brumaire VIII), replacing the
five directors now with three "consuls": Napoleon, Sieyes, and Roger
Ducos.
[153] That coup some historians consider the closing of the
specifically republican phase of the French Revolution.
[170]
The Army at first was quite successful. It conquered Belgium and turned it
into a province of France; conquered the Netherlands and made it a puppet
state; and conquered Switzerland and most of Italy, setting up a series of
puppet states. The result was glory for France and an infusion of much
needed money from the conquered lands, which also provided direct
support to the French Army. However, the enemies of France, led by Britain and funded by the inexhaustible British Treasury,
formed a Second Coalition in 1799 (with Britain joined by Russia, the Ottoman Empire, and Austria). The allies scored a series of
victories that rolled back French successes, retaking Italy, Switzerland and the Netherlands and ending the flow of payments from
the conquered areas to France. The treasury was empty. Despite his publicity claiming many glorious victories, Napoleon's army
was trapped in Egypt after the British sank the French fleet at the Battle of the Nile. Napoleon escaped by himself, returned to
Paris and overthrew the Directory in November 1799.
[171][172]
Napoleon conquered most of Italy in the name of the French Revolution in
1797–99. He consolidated old units and split up Austria's holdings. He set
up a series of new republics, complete with new codes of law and abolition
of old feudal privileges. Napoleon's Cisalpine Republic was centred on
Milan. Genoa the city became a republic while its hinterland became the
Ligurian Republic. The Roman Republic was formed out of the papal
holdings and the pope was sent to France. The Neapolitan Republic was
formed around Naples, but it lasted only five months before the enemy
forces of the Coalition recaptured it. In 1805 Napoleon formed the
Kingdom of Italy, with himself as king and his stepson as viceroy. In
addition, France turned the Netherlands into the Batavian Republic, and
Switzerland into the Helvetic Republic. All these new countries were
satellites of France and had to pay large subsidies to Paris, as well as
provide military support for Napoleon's wars. Their political and
administrative systems were modernised, the metric system introduced, and trade barriers reduced. Jewish ghettos were
abolished. Belgium and Piedmont became integral parts of France.
[173]
Most of the new nations were abolished and returned to prewar owners in 1814. However, Artz emphasises the benefits the
Italians gained from the French Revolution:
For nearly two decades the Italians had the excellent codes of law, a fair system of taxation, a better economic
situation, and more religious and intellectual toleration than they had known for centuries... Everywhere old
physical, economic, and intellectual barriers had been thrown down and the Italians had begun to be aware of a
common nationality.
[174]
Napoléon Bonaparte in the coup d'état of
18 Brumaire VIII (9 November 1799)
Exporting the Revolution
French-Dutch victory under General Brune
and General Daendels against the
Russians and British in 1799
In the Old regime there were a small number of heavily censored
newspapers that needed a royal licence to operate. Newspapers
and pamphlets played a central role in stimulating and defining
the Revolution. The meetings of the Estates-General in 1789
created an enormous demand for news, and over 130 newspapers
appeared by the end of the year. Among the most significant of
these newspapers in 1789 were Marat's L'Ami du peuple and
Elysée Loustallot's Revolutions de Paris. The next decade saw
2,000 newspapers founded, with 500 in Paris alone. Most lasted
only a matter of weeks. Together they became the main
communication medium, combined with the very large pamphlet
literature.
[175] Newspapers were read aloud in taverns and clubs,
and circulated hand to hand. The press saw its lofty role to be the
advancement of civic republicanism based on public service, and
downplayed the liberal, individualistic goal of making a profit.
[176][177][178][179] By 1793 the radicals were most active but at the
start the royalists flooded the country with their press the "Ami du Roi" (Friends of the King) until they were suppressed.
[180]
Napoleon only allowed four newspapers, all under tight control.
Symbolism was a device to distinguish the main features of the Revolution and ensure public identification and support. In order
to effectively illustrate the differences between the new Republic and the old regime, the leaders needed to implement a new set
of symbols to be celebrated instead of the old religious and monarchical symbolism. To this end, symbols were borrowed from
historic cultures and redefined, while those of the old regime were either destroyed or reattributed acceptable characteristics.
These revised symbols were used to instil in the public a new sense of tradition and reverence for the Enlightenment and the
Republic.
[181]
"La Marseillaise" (French pronunciation: [la ma?s?j??z]) became the national
anthem of France. The song was written and composed in 1792 by Claude
Joseph Rouget de Lisle, and was originally titled "Chant de guerre pour l'Armée
du Rhin". The French National Convention adopted it as the First Republic's
anthem in 1795. It acquired its nickname after being sung in Paris by volunteers
from Marseille marching on the capital.
The song is the first example of the "European march" anthemic style. The
anthem's evocative melody and lyrics have led to its widespread use as a song of
revolution and its incorporation into many pieces of classical and popular music.
Cerulo says, "the design of "La Marseillaise" is credited to General Strasburg of
France, who is said to have directed de Lisle, the composer of the anthem, to
'produce one of those hymns which conveys to the soul of the people the
enthusiasm which it (the music) suggests.'"
[182]
Media and symbolism
Newspapers
A copy of L'Ami du peuple stained with the blood of
Marat
Symbolism
La Marseillaise
Rouget de Lisle, composer of the
Marseillaise, sings it for the first time
in 1792.
Hanson notes, "The guillotine stands as the principal symbol of the Terror in the
French Revolution."
[183]
Invented by a physician during the Revolution as a
quicker, more efficient and more distinctive form of execution, the guillotine
became a part of popular culture and historic memory. It was celebrated on the
left as the people's avenger and cursed as the symbol of the Reign of Terror by
the right.
[184]
Its operation became a popular entertainment that attracted great
crowds of spectators. Vendors sold programmes listing the names of those
scheduled to die. Many people came day after day and vied for the best locations
from which to observe the proceedings; knitting women (tricoteuses) formed a
cadre of hardcore regulars, inciting the crowd. Parents often brought their
children. By the end of the Terror, the crowds had thinned drastically. Repetition
had staled even this most grisly of entertainments, and audiences grew
bored.
[185]
What it is that horrifies people changes over time. Doyle comments:
Even the unique horror of the guillotine has been
dwarfed by the gas chambers of the Holocaust, the
organized brutality of the gulag, the mass intimidation
of Mao's cultural revolution, or the killing fields of
Cambodia.[186]
Cockades were widely worn by revolutionaries beginning in 1789. They now pinned the blue-and-red cockade of Paris onto the
white cockade of the Ancien Régime – thus producing the original Tricolore cockade. Later, distinctive colours and styles of
cockade would indicate the wearer's faction – although the meanings of the various styles were not entirely consistent, and varied
somewhat by region and period.
The tricolour flag is derived from the cockades used in the 1790s. These
were circular rosette-like emblems attached to the hat. Camille Desmoulins
asked his followers to wear green cockades on 12 July 1789. The Paris
militia, formed on 13 July, adopted a blue and red cockade. Blue and red
are the traditional colours of Paris, and they are used on the city's coat of
arms. Cockades with various colour schemes were used during the
storming of the Bastille on 14 July.
[187] The blue and red cockade was
presented to King Louis XVI at the Hôtel de Ville on 17 July. Lafayette
argued for the addition of a white stripe to "nationalise" the design.
[188] On
27 July, a tricolour cockade was adopted as part of the uniform of the
National Guard, the national police force that succeeded the militia.
[189]
Well after the revolution, by 1912 the French Third Republic had
authorised the form of the tricolore cockade for use on its military aircraft
by the Aeronautique Militaire as a national insignia,
[190]
the first-ever in
use worldwide – it is still in use by the current Armee de l'Air of France,
and directly inspired the use of similar roundel insignia by the United
Kingdom and many other nations worldwide.
English cartoon attacking the
excesses of the Revolution as
symbolised by the guillotine; between
18,000 and 40,000 people were
executed during the Reign of Terror.
Guillotine
Tricolore cockade
The tricolour cockade, created in July
1789. White was added to "nationalise" an
earlier blue and red design.
Fasces are Roman in origin and suggest Roman Republicanism. Fasces are a
bundle of birch rods containing an axe. The French Republic continued this
Roman symbol to represent state power, justice, and unity.
[181]
The Liberty cap, also known as the Phrygian cap, or pileus, is a brimless, felt cap
that is conical in shape with the tip pulled forward. It reflects Roman
republicanism and liberty, alluding to the Roman ritual of manumission of
slaves, in which a freed slave receives the bonnet as a symbol of his newfound
liberty.
[191]
Historians since the late 20th century have debated how women shared in the
French Revolution and what long-term impact it had on French women. Women
had no political rights in pre-Revolutionary France; they were considered
"passive" citizens; forced to rely on men to determine what was best for
them. That changed dramatically in theory as there seemingly were great
advances in feminism. Feminism emerged in Paris as part of a broad
demand for social and political reform. The women demanded equality for
women and then moved on to a demand for the end of male domination.
Their chief vehicle for agitation were pamphlets and women's clubs; for
example, a small group called the Cercle Social (Social Circle)
campaigned for women's rights, noting that "the laws favor men at the
expense of women, because everywhere power is in your hands."
[192]
However, in October 1793, the country's all-male legislative body voted to
ban all women's clubs. The movement was crushed. Devance explains the
decision in terms of the emphasis on masculinity in a wartime situation,
Marie Antoinette's bad reputation for feminine interference in state affairs,
and traditional male supremacy.
[193] A decade later the Napoleonic Code
confirmed and perpetuated women's second-class status.
[194]
When the Revolution opened, groups of women acted forcefully, making
use of the volatile political climate. Women forced their way into the
political sphere. They swore oaths of loyalty, "solemn declarations of
patriotic allegiance, [and] affirmations of the political responsibilities of
citizenship." De Corday d'Armont is a prime example of such a woman;
engaged in the revolutionary political faction of the Girondins, she assassinated the Jacobin leader, Marat. Throughout the
Revolution, other women such as Pauline Léon and her Society of Revolutionary Republican Women supported the radical
Jacobins, staged demonstrations in the National Assembly and participated in the riots, often using armed force.
[195]
The March to Versailles is but one example of feminist militant activism during the French Revolution. While largely left out of
the thrust for increasing rights of citizens, as the question was left indeterminate in the Declaration of the Rights of Man,
[196]
activists such as Pauline Léon and Théroigne de Méricourt agitated for full citizenship for women.
[197] Women were,
nonetheless, "denied political rights of 'active citizenship' (1791) and democratic citizenship (1793)."
[196]
Fasces
The unofficial but common National
Emblem of France is backed by a
fasces, representing justice.
Liberty cap
Early depiction of the tricolour in the hands
of a sans-culotte
Role of women
On 20 June 1792 a number of armed women took part in a procession that
"passed through the halls of the Legislative Assembly, into the Tuileries
Gardens, and then through the King's residence."
[198] Militant women also
assumed a special role in the funeral of Marat, following his murder on 13 July
1793. As part of the funeral procession, they carried the bathtub in which Marat
had been murdered (by a counter-revolutionary woman) as well as a shirt stained
with Marat's blood.
[199] On 20 May 1793 women were at the fore of a crowd
that demanded "bread and the Constitution of 1793." When their cries went
unnoticed, the women went on a rampage, "sacking shops, seizing grain and
kidnapping officials."
[200]
The Society of Revolutionary Republican Women, a militant group on the far
left, demanded a law in 1793 that would compel all women to wear the tricolour
cockade to demonstrate their loyalty to the Republic. They also demanded
vigorous price controls to keep bread – the major food of the poor people – from
becoming too expensive. After the Convention passage law in September 1793,
the Revolutionary Republican Women demanded vigorous enforcement, but
were counted by market women, former servants, and religious women who
adamantly opposed price controls (which would drive them out of business ) and
resented attacks on the aristocracy and on religion. Fist fights broke out in the
streets between the two factions of women.
Meanwhile, the men who controlled the Jacobins rejected the Revolutionary
Republican Women as dangerous rabble-rousers. At this point the Jacobins
controlled the government; they dissolved the Society of Revolutionary
Republican Women, and decreed that all women's clubs and associations were
illegal. They sternly reminded women to stay home and tend to their families by
leaving public affairs to the men. Organised women were permanently shut out
of the French Revolution after 30 October 1793.
[201]
Olympe de Gouges wrote a number of plays, short stories, and novels. Her publications emphasised that women and men are
different, but this shouldn't stop them from equality under the law. In her "Declaration on the Rights of Woman" she insisted that
women deserved rights, especially in areas concerning them directly, such as divorce and recognition of illegitimate children.
[202]
Madame Roland (a.k.a. Manon or Marie Roland) was another important female activist. Her political focus was not specifically
on women or their liberation. She focused on other aspects of the government, but was a feminist by virtue of the fact that she
was a woman working to influence the world. Her personal letters to leaders of the Revolution influenced policy; in addition, she
often hosted political gatherings of the Brissotins, a political group which allowed women to join. As she was led to the scaffold,
Madame Roland shouted "O liberty! What crimes are committed in thy name!"
[203]
Most of these activists were punished for their actions. Many of the women of the Revolution were even publicly executed for
"conspiring against the unity and the indivisibility of the Republic".
[204]
A major aspect of the French Revolution was the dechristianisation movement, a movement strongly rejected by many devout
people. Especially for women living in rural areas of France, the closing of the churches meant a loss of normalcy.
[205]
Club of patriotic women in a church
Olympe de Gouges was the author of
the Declaration of the Rights of
Woman and the Female Citizen in
1791.
Prominent women
Counter-revolutionary women
When these revolutionary changes to the Church were implemented, it sparked a counter-revolutionary movement among
women. Although some of these women embraced the political and social amendments of the Revolution, they opposed the
dissolution of the Catholic Church and the formation of revolutionary cults like the Cult of the Supreme Being.
[206] As Olwen
Hufton argues, these women began to see themselves as the "defenders of faith".
[207] They took it upon themselves to protect the
Church from what they saw as a heretical change to their faith, enforced by revolutionaries.
Counter-revolutionary women resisted what they saw as the intrusion of the state into their lives.
[208] Economically, many
peasant women refused to sell their goods for assignats because this form of currency was unstable and was backed by the sale of
confiscated Church property. By far the most important issue to counter-revolutionary women was the passage and the
enforcement of the Civil Constitution of the Clergy in 1790. In response to this measure, women in many areas began circulating
anti-oath pamphlets and refused to attend masses held by priests who had sworn oaths of loyalty to the Republic. These women
continued to adhere to traditional practices such as Christian burials and naming their children after saints in spite of
revolutionary decrees to the contrary.
[209]
The French Revolution abolished many of the constraints on the
economy that had slowed growth during the ancien regime. It
abolished tithes owed to local churches as well as feudal dues
owed to local landlords. The result hurt the tenants, who paid
both higher rents and higher taxes.
[210]
It nationalised all church
lands, as well as lands belonging to royalist enemies who went
into exile. It planned to use these seized lands to finance the
government by issuing assignats. It abolished the guild system as
a worthless remnant of feudalism.
[211]
It also abolished the
highly inefficient system of tax farming, whereby private
individuals would collect taxes for a hefty fee. The government
seized the foundations that had been set up (starting in the 13th
century) to provide an annual stream of revenue for hospitals,
poor relief, and education. The state sold the lands but typically local authorities
did not replace the funding and so most of the nation's charitable and school
systems were massively disrupted.
[212]
The economy did poorly in 1790–96 as industrial and agricultural output
dropped, foreign trade plunged, and prices soared. The government decided not
to repudiate the old debts. Instead it issued more and more paper money (called
"assignat") that supposedly were grounded seized lands. The result was
escalating inflation. The government imposed price controls and persecuted
speculators and traders in the black market. People increasingly refused to pay
taxes as the annual government deficit increased from 10% of gross national
product in 1789 to 64% in 1793. By 1795, after the bad harvest of 1794 and the removal of price controls, inflation had reached a
level of 3500%. The assignats were withdrawn in 1796 but the replacements also fuelled inflation. The inflation was finally ended
by Napoleon in 1803 with the franc as the new currency.
[213]
Napoleon after 1799 paid for his expensive wars by multiple means, starting with the modernisation of the rickety financial
system.
[214] He conscripted soldiers at low wages, raised taxes, placed large-scale loans, sold lands formerly owned by the
Catholic Church, sold Louisiana to the United States, plundered conquered areas and seized food supplies, and levied requisitions
on countries he controlled, such as Italy.
[215]
Economic policies
Early Assignat of 29 September 1790: 500 livres
The value of Assignats (1789–96)
The French Revolution had a major impact on Europe and the New World,
decisively changing the course of human history.
[216][217]
It brought an end to
feudalism and made a path for future advances in broadly defined individual
freedoms.
[2][3][4]
Otto Dann and John Dinwiddy report, "It has long been almost a truism of
European history that the French Revolution gave a great stimulus to the growth
of modern nationalism."
[218] Nationalism was emphasised by historian Carlton
J.H. Hayes as a major result of the French Revolution across Europe. The impact
on French nationalism was profound. For example, Napoleon became such a
heroic symbol of the nation that the glory was easily picked up by his nephew,
who was overwhelmingly elected president (and later became Emperor
Napoleon III).
[219] The influence was great in the hundreds of small German
states and elsewhere, where it was either inspired by the French example or in
reaction against it.
[220][221]
The changes in France were enormous; some were widely accepted and others were bitterly contested into the late 20th
century.
[222] Before the Revolution, the people had little power or voice. The kings had so thoroughly centralised the system that
most nobles spent their time at Versailles, and thus played only a small direct role in their home districts. Thompson says that the
kings had "ruled by virtue of their personal wealth, their patronage of the nobility, their disposal of ecclesiastical offices, their
provincial governors (intendants) their control over the judges and magistrates, and their command of the Army."
[223]
After the first year of revolution, the power of the king had been stripped away, he was left a mere figurehead, the nobility had
lost all their titles and most of their land, the Church lost its monasteries and farmlands, bishops, judges and magistrates were
elected by the people, and the army was almost helpless, with military power in the hands of the new revolutionary National
Guard. The central elements of 1789 were the slogan "Liberty, Equality and Fraternity" and "The Declaration of the Rights of
Man and the Citizen", which Lefebvre calls "the incarnation of the Revolution as a whole."
[224]
The long-term impact on France was profound, shaping politics, society, religion and ideas, and polarising politics for more than
a century. Historian François Aulard writes:
"From the social point of view, the Revolution consisted in the suppression of what was called the feudal system,
in the emancipation of the individual, in greater division of landed property, the abolition of the privileges of
noble birth, the establishment of equality, the simplification of life.... The French Revolution differed from other
revolutions in being not merely national, for it aimed at benefiting all humanity."
[225]
The most heated controversy was over the status of the Catholic Church.
[226] From a dominant position in 1788, it was almost
destroyed in less than a decade, its priests and nuns turned out, its leaders dead or in exile, its property controlled by its enemies,
and a strong effort underway to remove all influence of Christian religiosity, such as Sundays, holy days, saints, prayers, rituals
and ceremonies. The movement to dechristianise France not only failed but aroused a furious reaction among the pious.
[227][228]
Napoleon's Concordat was a compromise that restored some of the Catholic Church's traditional roles but not its power, its lands
or its monasteries. Priests and bishops were given salaries as part of a department of government controlled by Paris, not Rome.
Long-term impact
La Liberté guidant le peuple, painting
by Eugène Delacroix
commemorating the July Revolution
of 1830
France
Religion and charity
Protestants and Jews gained equal rights.
[229] Battles over the role of religion in the public sphere, and closely related issues such
as church-controlled schools, that were opened by the Revolution have never seen closure. They raged into the 20th century. By
the 21st century, angry debates exploded over the presence of any Muslim religious symbols in schools, such as the headscarves
for which Muslim girls could be expelled. J. Christopher Soper and Joel S. Fetzer explicitly link the conflict over religious
symbols in public to the French Revolution, when the target was Catholic rituals and symbols.
[230]
The revolutionary government seized the charitable foundations that had been set up (starting in the 13th century) to provide an
annual stream of revenue for hospitals, poor relief, and education. The state sold the lands but typically local authorities did not
replace the funding and so most of the nation's charitable and school systems were massively disrupted.
[212]
In the ancien regime, new opportunities for nuns as charitable practitioners were created by devout nobles on their own estates.
The nuns provided comprehensive care for the sick poor on their patrons' estates, not only acting as nurses, but taking on
expanded roles as physicians, surgeons, and apothecaries. During the Revolution, most of the orders of nuns were shut down and
there was no organised nursing care to replace them.
[231] However, the demand for their nursing services remained strong, and
after 1800 the sisters reappeared and resumed their work in hospitals and on rural estates. They were tolerated by officials
because they had widespread support and were the link between elite male physicians and distrustful peasants who needed
help.
[232]
Two thirds of France was employed in agriculture, which was transformed by the Revolution. With the breakup of large estates
controlled by the Church and the nobility and worked by hired hands, rural France became more a land of small independent
farms. Harvest taxes were ended, such as the tithe and seigneurial dues, much to the relief of the peasants. Primogeniture was
ended both for nobles and peasants, thereby weakening the family patriarch. Because all the children had a share in the family's
property, there was a declining birth rate.
[233][234] Cobban says the revolution bequeathed to the nation "a ruling class of
landowners."
[235]
In the cities, entrepreneurship on a small scale flourished, as restrictive monopolies, privileges, barriers, rules, taxes and guilds
gave way. However, the British blockade virtually ended overseas and colonial trade, hurting the port cities and their supply
chains. Overall, the Revolution did not greatly change the French business system, and probably helped freeze in place the
horizons of the small business owner. The typical businessman owned a small store, mill or shop, with family help and a few paid
employees; large-scale industry was less common than in other industrialising nations.
[236]
A 2017 National Bureau of Economic Research paper found that the emigration of more than 100,000 individuals (predominantly
supporters of the Old Regime) during the Revolution had a significant negative impact on income per capita in the 19th century
(due to the fragmentation of agricultural holdings) but became positive in the second half of the 20th century onward (because it
facilitated the rise in human capital investments).
[237] Another 2017 paper found that the redistribution of land had a positive
impact on agricultural productivity, but that these gains gradually declined over the course of the 19th century.
[238][239]
The Revolution meant an end to arbitrary royal rule and held out the promise of rule by law under a constitutional order, but it did
not rule out a monarch. Napoleon as emperor set up a constitutional system (although he remained in full control), and the
restored Bourbons were forced to go along with one. After the abdication of Napoleon III in 1871, the monarchists probably had a
voting majority, but they were so factionalised they could not agree on who should be king, and instead the French Third
Republic was launched with a deep commitment to upholding the ideals of the Revolution.
[240][241] The conservative Catholic
enemies of the Revolution came to power in Vichy France (1940–44), and tried with little success to undo its heritage, but they
kept it a republic. Vichy denied the principle of equality and tried to replace the Revolutionary watchwords "Liberty, Equality,
Economics
Constitutionalism
Fraternity" with "Work, Family, and Fatherland." However, there were no efforts by the Bourbons, Vichy or anyone else to restore
the privileges that had been stripped away from the nobility in 1789. France permanently became a society of equals under the
law.
[242]
The Jacobin cause was picked up by Marxists in the mid-19th century and became an element of communist thought around the
world. In the Soviet Union, "Gracchus" Babeuf was regarded as a hero.
[243]
Economic historians Dan Bogart, Mauricio Drelichman, Oscar Gelderblom, and Jean-Laurent Rosenthal described codified law
as the French Revolution's "most significant export." They wrote, "While restoration returned most of their power to the absolute
monarchs who had been deposed by Napoleon, only the most recalcitrant ones, such as Ferdinand VII of Spain, went to the
trouble of completely reversing the legal innovations brought on by the French."
[244] They also note that the French Revolution
and the Napoleonic Wars caused England, Spain, Prussia and the Dutch Republic to centralize their fiscal systems to an
unprecedented extent in order to finance the military campaigns of the Napoleonic Wars.
[244]
According to Daron Acemoglu, Davide Cantoni, Simon Johnson, and James A. Robinson the French Revolution had long-term
effects in Europe. They suggest that "areas that were occupied by the French and that underwent radical institutional reform
experienced more rapid urbanization and economic growth, especially after 1850. There is no evidence of a negative effect of
French invasion."
[245]
A 2016 study in the European Economic Review found that the areas of Germany that were occupied by France in the 19th
century and in which the Code Napoleon was applied have higher levels of trust and cooperation today.
[246]
On 16 July 1789, two days after the Storming of the Bastille, John Frederick Sackville, serving as ambassador to France, reported
to Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs Francis Osborne, 5th Duke of Leeds, "Thus, my Lord, the greatest revolution that we
know anything of has been effected with, comparatively speaking – if the magnitude of the event is considered – the loss of very
few lives. From this moment we may consider France as a free country, the King a very limited monarch, and the nobility as
reduced to a level with the rest of the nation.
[247]" Yet Britain saw minority support while the majority, and especially the among
aristocracy, strongly opposed the French Revolution. Britain led and funded the series of coalitions that fought France from 1793
to 1815, and then restored the Bourbons.
Philosophically and politically, Britain was in debate over the rights and wrongs of revolution, in the abstract and in practicalities.
The Revolution Controversy was a "pamphlet war" set off by the publication of A Discourse on the Love of Our Country, a
speech given by Richard Price to the Revolution Society on 4 November 1789, supporting the French Revolution (as he had the
American Revolution), and saying that patriotism actually centers around loving the people and principles of a nation, not its
ruling class. Edmund Burke responded in November 1790 with his own pamphlet, Reflections on the Revolution in France,
attacking the French Revolution as a threat to the aristocracy of all countries.
[248][249] William Coxe opposed Price's premise that
one's country is principles and people, not the State itself.
[250]
Conversely, two seminal political pieces of political history were written in Price's favor, supporting the general right of the
French people to replace their State. One of the first of these "pamphlets" into print was A Vindication of the Rights of Men by
Mary Wollstonecraft (better known for her later treatise, sometimes described as the first feminist text, A Vindication of the Rights
of Woman); Wollstonecraft's title was echoed by Thomas Paine's Rights of Man, published a few months later. In 1792
Christopher Wyvill published Defence of Dr. Price and the Reformers of England, a plea for reform and moderation.
[251]
Communism
Outside France
Britain
This exchange of ideas has been described as "one of the great political debates in British history".
[252] Even in France, there was
a varying degree of agreement during this debate, English participants generally opposing the violent means that the Revolution
bent itself to for its ends.
[253]
In Ireland, the effect was to transform what had been an attempt by Protestant settlers to gain some autonomy into a mass
movement led by the Society of United Irishmen involving Catholics and Protestants. It stimulated the demand for further reform
throughout Ireland, especially in Ulster. The upshot was a revolt in 1798, led by Wolfe Tone, that was crushed by Britain.
[254]
German reaction to the Revolution swung from favourable to antagonistic. At first it brought liberal and democratic ideas, the end
of gilds, serfdom and the Jewish ghetto. It brought economic freedoms and agrarian and legal reform. Above all the antagonism
helped stimulate and shape German nationalism.
[255]
The French invaded Switzerland and turned it into an ally known as the "Helvetic Republic" (1798–1803). The interference with
localism and traditional liberties was deeply resented, although some modernising reforms took place.
[256][257]
The region of modern-day Belgium was divided between two polities: the
Austrian Netherlands and Prince-Bishopric of Liège. Both territories
experienced revolutions in 1789. In the Austrian Netherlands, the Brabant
Revolution succeeded in expelling Austrian forces and established the new
United Belgian States. The Liège Revolution expelled the tyrannical PrinceBishop and installed a republic. Both failed to attract international support. By
December 1790, the Brabant revolution had been crushed and Liège was
subdued the following year.
During the Revolutionary Wars, the French invaded and occupied the region
between 1794 and 1814, a time known as the French period. The new
government enforced new reforms, incorporating the region into France itself.
New rulers were sent in by Paris. Belgian men were drafted into the French wars
and heavily taxed. Nearly everyone was Catholic, but the Church was repressed.
Resistance was strong in every sector, as Belgian nationalism emerged to oppose French rule. The French legal system, however,
was adopted, with its equal legal rights, and abolition of class distinctions. Belgium now had a government bureaucracy selected
by merit.
[258]
Antwerp regained access to the sea and grew quickly as a major port and business centre. France promoted commerce and
capitalism, paving the way for the ascent of the bourgeoisie and the rapid growth of manufacturing and mining. In economics,
therefore, the nobility declined while the middle class Belgian entrepreneurs flourished because of their inclusion in a large
market, paving the way for Belgium's leadership role after 1815 in the Industrial Revolution on the Continent.
[259][260]
The Kingdom of Denmark adopted liberalising reforms in line with those of the French Revolution, with no direct contact.
Reform was gradual and the regime itself carried out agrarian reforms that had the effect of weakening absolutism by creating a
class of independent peasant freeholders. Much of the initiative came from well-organised liberals who directed political change
in the first half of the 19th century.
[261]
Germany
Switzerland
Belgium
The Brabant Revolution broke out in
the Austrian Netherlands in October
1789, inspired by the revolution in
neighbouring France, but had
collapsed by the end of 1790.
Scandinavia
The Revolution deeply polarised American politics, and this polarisation led to the creation of the First Party System. In 1793, as
war broke out in Europe, the Republican Party led by Thomas Jefferson favoured France and pointed to the 1778 treaty that was
still in effect. George Washington and his unanimous cabinet, including Jefferson, decided that the treaty did not bind the United
States to enter the war. Washington proclaimed neutrality instead.
[262] Under President John Adams, a Federalist, an undeclared
naval war took place with France from 1798 until 1799, often called the "Quasi War". Jefferson became president in 1801, but
was hostile to Napoleon as a dictator and emperor. However, the two entered negotiations over the Louisiana Territory and agreed
to the Louisiana Purchase in 1803, an acquisition that substantially increased the size of the United States.
The French Revolution has received enormous amounts of historical attention, both from the general public and from scholars
and academics. The views of historians, in particular, have been characterised as falling along ideological lines, with
disagreement over the significance and the major developments of the Revolution.
[263] Alexis de Tocqueville argued that the
Revolution was a manifestation of a more prosperous middle class becoming conscious of its social importance.
[264]
Other thinkers, like the conservative Edmund Burke, maintained that the Revolution was the product of a few conspiratorial
individuals who brainwashed the masses into subverting the old order – a claim rooted in the belief that the revolutionaries had no
legitimate complaints.
[265] Other historians, influenced by Marxist thinking, have emphasised the importance of the peasants and
the urban workers in presenting the Revolution as a gigantic class struggle.
[266]
In general, scholarship on the French Revolution
initially studied the political ideas and developments of the era, but it has gradually shifted towards social history that analyses
the impact of the Revolution on individual lives.
[267]
Historians until the late 20th century emphasised class conflicts from a largely Marxist perspective as the fundamental driving
cause of the Revolution.
[268] The central theme of this argument was that the Revolution emerged from the rising bourgeoisie,
with support from the sans-culottes, who fought to destroy the aristocracy.
[269] However, Western scholars largely abandoned
Marxist interpretations in the 1990s. By the year 2000 many historians were saying that the field of the French Revolution was in
intellectual disarray. The old model or paradigm focusing on class conflict has been discredited, and no new explanatory model
had gained widespread support.
[270][271] Nevertheless, as Spang has shown, there persists a very widespread agreement to the
effect that the French Revolution was the watershed between the premodern and modern eras of Western history.
[270]
Historians widely regard the Revolution as one of the most important events in history. It marks the end of the early modern
period, which started around 1500 and is often seen as marking the "dawn of the modern era".
[272] Within France itself, the
Revolution permanently crippled the power of the aristocracy and drained the wealth of the Church, although the two institutions
survived despite the damage they sustained. After the collapse of the First Empire in 1815, the French public lost the rights and
privileges earned since the Revolution, but they remembered the participatory politics that characterised the period, with one
historian commenting: "Thousands of men and even many women gained firsthand experience in the political arena: they talked,
read, and listened in new ways; they voted; they joined new organisations; and they marched for their political goals. Revolution
became a tradition, and republicanism an enduring option."
[273]
Some historians argue that the French people underwent a fundamental transformation in self-identity, evidenced by the
elimination of privileges and their replacement by rights as well as the growing decline in social deference that highlighted the
principle of equality throughout the Revolution.
[274] The Revolution represented the most significant and dramatic challenge to
political absolutism up to that point in history and spread democratic ideals throughout Europe and ultimately the world.
[275]
Throughout the 19th century, the revolution was heavily analysed by economists and political scientists, who saw the class nature
of the revolution as a fundamental aspect in understanding human social evolution itself. This, combined with the egalitarian
values introduced by the revolution, gave rise to a classless and co-operative model for society called "socialism" which
profoundly influenced future revolutions in France and around the world.
United States
Historiography
Age of Revolution
Timeline of the French Revolution
Glossary of the French Revolution for definitions of technical terms
List of people associated with the French Revolution
History of France
Paris in the 18th Century
Musée de la Révolution française
Jacobins
Cordeliers
Feuillants
Society of the Friends of Truth
Montagnards
Girondins
1. Livesey, James. Making Democracy in the French Revolution p. 19 "The Revolution created and elaborated...the
ideal of democracy, which forms the creative tension with the notion of sovereignty that informs the functioning of
modern democratic liberal states. This was the truly original contribution of the Revolution to modern political
culture."
2. Linda S. Frey and Marsha L. Frey, The French Revolution (2004), Foreword.
3. R.R. Palmer and Joel Colton, A History of the Modern World (5th ed. 1978), p. 341
4. Ferenc Fehér, The French Revolution and the Birth of Modernity, (1990) pp. 117–30
5. Tombs, Robert and Isabelle. That Sweet Enemy: The French and the British from the Sun King to the Present.
Random House (2007) ISBN 978-1-4000-4024-7. p. 179.
6. Dunn, Susan (1999). Sister Revolutions. New York: Faber and Faber. p. 9.
7. Palmer, R.R. & Colton, Joel. A History of the Modern World, pp. 393–97
8. Palmer, R.R. & Colton, Joel. A History of the Modern World, p. 361
9. Dmitry Shlapentokh, The French Revolution and the Russian Anti-Democratic Tradition (Edison, NJ: Transaction
Publishers, 1997), pp. 220–28
10. A. Aulard in Arthur Tilley, ed. (1922). Modern France: A Companion to French Studies (https://books.google.com/
books?id=7c45AAAAIAAJ&pg=PA115). Cambridge UP. p. 115.
11. Bell, David Avrom (2007). The First Total War: Napoleon's Europe and the Birth of Warfare as We Know It (http
s://archive.org/details/firsttotalwarnap00bell/page/51). New York: Houghton Mifflin Harcourt. p. 51 (https://archive.
org/details/firsttotalwarnap00bell/page/51). ISBN 978-0-618-34965-4.
12. Suzanne Desan et al. eds. The French Revolution in Global Perspective (2013), pp. 3, 8, 10
13. Marshall, Thomas H. Citizenship and social class. Vol. 11. Cambridge, 1950.
14. Lichbach, Mark Irving. "An evaluation of 'does economic inequality breed political conflict?' studies". World
Politics 41.04 (1989): 431–70.
15. Gordon, Daniel. Citizens without Sovereignty: Equality and sociability in French thought, 1670–1789. Princeton:
Princeton University Press, 1994.
16. Sargent, Thomas J., and Francois R. Velde. "Macroeconomic features of the French Revolution." Journal of
Political Economy (1995): 474–518.
See also
Political groups during the French Revolution
Notes
17. Hardman, John. French politics 1774–1789: from the accession of Louis XVI to the fall of the Bastille. AddisonWesley, 1995.
18. Baker, Keith Michael. "French political thought at the accession of Louis XVI". The Journal of Modern History
(1978): 279–303.
19. David P. Jordan (2004). The King's Trial: The French Revolution Vs. Louis XVI (https://books.google.com/books?i
d=s__iS_KF8jwC&pg=PR11). University of California Press. pp. 11–. ISBN 978-0-520-23697-4.
20. Campbell, Peter Robert, ed. The origins of the French revolution. Palgrave Macmillan, 2006.
21. Blanning, T.C.W. The French Revolution: Class War or Culture Clash?, London: Macmillan, 1998 p. 26.
22. Blanning, T.C.W. The French Revolution: Class War or Culture Clash?, London: Macmillan, 1998 pp. 26–27.
23. Blanning, T.C.W. The French Revolution: Class War or Culture Clash?, London: Macmillan, 1998 p. 27.
24. Blanning, T.C.W. The French Revolution: Class War or Culture Clash?, London: Macmillan, 1998 p. 28.
25. Blanning, T.C.W. The French Revolution: Class War or Culture Clash?, London: Macmillan, 1998 p. 29.
26. Blanning, T.C.W. The French Revolution: Class War or Culture Clash?, London: Macmillan, 1998 pp. 26–27
27. Blanning, T.C.W. The French Revolution: Class War or Culture Clash?, London: Macmillan, 1998 pp. 29–30.
28. Cormack, William S. Revolution and Political Conflict in the French Navy 1789–1794. Cambridge University
Press, 2002.
29. William Doyle, The Oxford History of the French Revolution (2nd ed. 2003), pp. 45–49, 76–77
30. De Tocqueville, Alexis, François Furet, and Françoise Mélonio. The Old Regime and the Revolution, Volume II:
Notes on the French Revolution and Napoleon. Vol. 2. University of Chicago Press, 2001.
31. Tilly, Louise A. "Food entitlement, famine, and conflict". Journal of Interdisciplinary History (1983): 333–49.
32. Hufton, Olwen. "Social conflict and the grain supply in eighteenth-century France". Journal of interdisciplinary
history (1983): 303–31.
33. Doyle, The Oxford History of the French Revolution (2003), pp. 73–74
34. Frey, p. 3
35. "France's Financial Crisis: 1783–1788" (http://www.sparknotes.com/history/european/frenchrev/section1.html).
Retrieved 26 October 2008.
36. Hibbert, pp. 35, 36
37. Frey, p. 2
38. Doyle, The French Revolution: A very short introduction, p. 34
39. Doyle 2003, p. 93
40. William Doyle, The Oxford History of the French Revolution (1989) p. 59
41. Doyle, The Oxford History of the French Revolution (1989) pp. 99–101
42. Albert Soboul, The French Revolution 1787–1799 (1975) pp. 127–29.
43. Frey, pp. 4, 5
44. Doyle 2001, p. 38
45. Neely, pp. 63, 65
46. Neely, p. 56
47. Furet, p. 45
48. Hibbert, p. 54
49. John Hall Stewart. A Documentary Survey of the French Revolution. (1951), p. 86.
50. Schama 2004, p. 303
51. Schama 2004, p. 312
52. Schama 2004, p. 317
53. Schama 2004, p. 331
54. Schama 2004, p. 344
55. Schama 2004, p. 357
56. Georges Lefebvre, The French Revolution: From its Origins to 1793 (1952) pp. 187–88.
57. Hibbert, 93
58. (in Dutch) Niek Pas – De geschiedenis van Frankrijk in een notendop (The history of France in a nutshell). Bert
Bakker, Amsterdam, 2008. Chapter 4 (pp. 49–62): Revolutie en Keizerrijk (Revolution and Empire).
59. (in Dutch) Noah Shusterman – De Franse Revolutie (The French Revolution). Veen Media, Amsterdam, 2015.
(Translation of: The French Revolution. Faith, Desire, and Politics. Routledge, London/New York, 2014.) Chapter
3 (pp. 95–139) : The Civil Constitution of the Clergy (summer 1790–spring 1791).
60. François Furet, "Night of August 4," in François Furet, and Mona Ozouf, eds. A Critical Dictionary of the French
Revolution (1989) pp. 107–14.
61. The buying and selling of high office.
62. Lefebvre, Georges (1962). The French Revolution: Vol. 1, from Its Origins To 1793 (https://books.google.com/boo
ks?id=bd-JDOw8v5QC&pg=PA130). Columbia U.P. p. 130. ISBN 978-0-231-08598-4.
63. Forster, Robert (1967). "The Survival of the Nobility during the French Revolution". Past & Present. 37 (37): 71–
86. doi:10.1093/past/37.1.71 (https://doi.org/10.1093%2Fpast%2F37.1.71). JSTOR 650023 (https://www.jstor.or
g/stable/650023).
64. Paul R. Hanson, The A to Z of the French Revolution (2013) pp. 293–94
65. Furet, Critical Dictionary of the French Revolution, p. 112
66. J.M. Thompson, The French Revolution (1943), pp. 90–111
67. Gregory Fremont-Barnes (2007). Encyclopedia of the Age of Political Revolutions and New Ideologies, 1760–
1815 (https://books.google.com/books?id=6_2wkP4j-EsC&pg=PA190). Greenwood. p. 190. ISBN 978-0-313-
04951-4.
68. Doyle 1989, p. 121
69. Doyle 1989, p. 122
70. Gemma Betros, "The French Revolution and the Catholic Church," History Review (2010) Issue 68, pp. 16–21.
71. Censer and Hunt, Liberty, Equality, Fraternity: Exploring the French Revolution p. 4.
72. John McManners, The French Revolution and the Church, pp. 50, 4.
73. National Assembly legislation cited in John McManners, The French Revolution and the Church, 27.
74. John McManners, The French Revolution and the Church, p. 27.
75. Censer and Hunt, Liberty, Equality, Fraternity: Exploring the French Revolution, p. 61.
76. Emmet Kennedy, A Cultural History of the French Revolution, p. 148.
77. Censer and Hunt, Liberty, Equality, Fraternity: Exploring the French Revolution, 92.
78. Noah Shusterman – The French Revolution. Faith, Desire, and Politics. Routledge, London and New York, 2014.
Chapter 3 (pp. 55–87): The Civil Constitution of the Clergy (summer 1790–spring 1791)
79. Emmet Kennedy, A Cultural History of the French Revolution, (1989) p. 151.
80. Matthew Shaw, Time and the French Revolution: The Republican Calendar, 1789 – Year XIV (2011)
81. Censer and Hunt, Liberty, Equality, Fraternity: Exploring the French Revolution, pp. 92–94.
82. Jack R. Censer, "Historians Revisit the Terror – Again". Journal of Social History 48#2 (2014): 383–403.
83. Censer and Hunt, Liberty, Equality, Fraternity: Exploring the French Revolution, 16.
84. Hunt, Lynn; et al. (2003). The Making of the West. Boston: Bedford/St. Martin's. p. 625.
85. John McManners, The French Revolution and the Church, p. 5.
86. Schama 2004, pp. 433–34
87. Runkle, Lucia Isabella Gilbert (1902). Library of the World's Best Literature, Ancient and Modern, Volume 17.
University of California: J. A. Hill. p. 10079.
88. Doyle, William (2009). Aristocracy and its Enemies in the Age of Revolution (https://books.google.com/books?id=
flWyXPMY4tcC&pg=PP334). Oxford UP. pp. 334–36. ISBN 978-0-19-160971-8.
89. Schama 2004, p. 449
90. Schama 2004, p. 442
91. Timothy Tackett, When the King Took Flight (Harvard University Press, 2003)
92. Schama 2004, p. 481
93. Clifford D. Conner, Jean-Paul Marat: Tribune of the French Revolution (2012) ch 4
94. (in Dutch) Noah Shusterman – De Franse Revolutie (The French Revolution). Veen Media, Amsterdam, 2015.
(Translation of: The French Revolution. Faith, Desire, and Politics. Routledge, London/New York, 2014.) Chapter
4 (pp. 141–86): The flight of the king and the decline of the French monarchy (summer 1791–summer 1792).
95. Schama 2004, p. 500
96. Soboul (1975), pp. 226–27.
97. Lefebvre, p. 212.
98. (German) 'Die Französische Revolution von 1789 bis 1794' (The French Revolution from 1789 until 1794) (http://
www.glasnost.de/hist/fr/franzRev4.html). Glasnost archiv. Retrieved 22 January 2017.
99. The present-day state of Austria did not exist as such, its territory was part of the Habsburg Monarchy which also
comprised the present-day states of Hungary, Czech Republic, Slovakia, Belgium, Slovenia and Croatia: that
Habsburg Monarchy was usually called 'Austria'.
100. Montague, Francis Charles (1911). "French Revolution, The" (https://en.wikisource.org/wiki/1911_Encyclop%C
3%A6dia_Britannica/French_Revolution,_The). In Chisholm, Hugh (ed.). Encyclopædia Britannica. 11 (11th ed.).
Cambridge University Press. p. 158.
101. Martyn Lyons, France under the Directory (1975), p. 5
102. (in Dutch) Noah Shusterman – De Franse Revolutie (The French Revolution). Veen Media, Amsterdam, 2015.
(Translation of: The French Revolution. Faith, Desire, and Politics. Routledge, London/New York, 2014.) Chapter
5 (pp. 187–221): The end of the monarchy and the September Murders (1792).
103. Dwyer, Philip (2008). Napoleon: The Path to Power 1769–1799 (https://books.google.com/books?id=tHDJYfc7K6
oC&pg=PA99). Yale University Press. pp. 99–100. ISBN 978-0-300-14820-6.
104. Peter McPhee, ed. (2012). A Companion to the French Revolution (https://books.google.com/books?id=k0P1o2s
X8XMC&pg=PT164). pp. 164–66. ISBN 978-1-118-31622-1.
105. 'French Revolutionary Wars Timeline, 1792' (http://www.emersonkent.com/history/timelines/french_revolutionary_
wars_timeline_1792.htm). Emerson Kent.com, "History for the relaxed historian". Retrieved 8 February 2017.
106. Noah Shusterman – The French Revolution: Faith, Desire, and Politics. Routledge, London and New York, 2014.
Chapter 5 (pp. 119–142): The end of the monarchy and the September Massacres (summer–fall 1792)
107. Leo Gershoy, The French Revolution and Napoleon pp. 221–26
108. Timothy Tackett, "Rumor and Revolution: The Case of the September Massacres", French History and
Civilization (2011) Vol. 4, pp. 54–64.
109. (in Dutch) Noah Shusterman – De Franse Revolutie (The French Revolution). Veen Media, Amsterdam, 2015.
(Translation of: The French Revolution. Faith, Desire, and Politics. Routledge, London/New York, 2014.) Chapter
5 (pp. 187–221) : The end of the monarchy and the September Murders (summer–fall 1792).
110. Doyle (2003), p. 194.
111. Schama 2004, p. 505
112. Marcel Dorginy, The Abolition of Slavery: From L.F. Sonthonax to Victor Schoelcher, 1793, 1794, 1848 (Paris:
UNESCO, 2003), 167–80.
113. (in Dutch) Noah Shusterman – De Franse Revolutie (The French Revolution). Veen Media, Amsterdam, 2015.
(Translation of: The French Revolution. Faith, Desire, and Politics. Routledge, London/New York, 2014.) Chapter
6 (pp. 223–69) : The new French republic and its enemies (fall 1792–summer 1793).
114. Holland, Arthur William (1911). "French Revolution, The" (https://en.wikisource.org/wiki/1911_Encyclop%C3%A6
dia_Britannica/French_Revolution,_The). In Chisholm, Hugh (ed.). Encyclopædia Britannica. 11 (11th ed.).
Cambridge University Press. p. 162.
115. Doyle 2002, p. 196
116. Wasson, Ellis (2009). A History of Modern Britain: 1714 to the Present (https://books.google.com/books?id=J5sp
bTRMfo8C&pg=PA118). John Wiley & Sons. p. 118. ISBN 978-1-4051-3935-9.
117. Doyle, William (2002). The Oxford History of the French Revolution (https://books.google.com/books?id=2DerOC
z4HRIC&pg=PT396). Oxford University Press. pp. 396–97. ISBN 978-0-19-160829-2.
118. White, E. "The French Revolution and the Politics of Government Finance, 1770–1815." The Journal of
Economic History 1995, p. 244
119. Schuettinger, Robert. "Forty Centuries of Wage and Price Controls." Heritage Foundation, 2009. p. 45
120. Bourne, Henry. "Maximum Prices in France." American Historical Review, October 1917, p. 112.
121. Gough, Hugh (1998). The Terror in the French Revolution. p. 77.
122. Doyle 1989, p. 258
123. Schama 2004, p. 616
124. Schama 2004, p. 641
125. Schama 2004, p. 637
126. Schama 2004, p. 689
127. François Furet, "A Deep-rooted Ideology as Well as Circumstance," in The French Revolution: Conflicting
Interpretations, ed. by Frank Kafker et al. (2002). p. 222.
128. Paul R. Hanson, Contesting the French Revolution (2009)
129. Noah Shusterman – The French Revolution. Faith, Desire, and Politics. Routledge, London and New York, 2014.
Chapter 7 (pp. 175–203): The federalist revolt, the Vendée, and the start of the Terror (summer–fall 1793).
130. (in Dutch) Noah Shusterman – De Franse Revolutie (The French Revolution). Veen Media, Amsterdam, 2015.
(Translation of: The French Revolution. Faith, Desire, and Politics. Routledge, London/New York, 2014.) Chapter
7 (pp. 271–312) : The federalist revolts, the Vendée and the beginning of the Terror (summer–fall 1793).
131. Times, James M. Markham and Special To the New York (17 June 1989). "Nantes Journal; In a Corner of France,
Long Live the Old Regime" (https://query.nytimes.com/gst/fullpage.html?res=950DE2DB1231F934A25755C0A96
F948260). The New York Times.
132. McPhee, Peter Review of Reynald Secher, A French Genocide: The Vendée (http://www.h-france.net/vol4review
s/mcphee3.html) H-France Review Vol. 4 (March 2004), No. 26 Archived (https://web.archive.org/web/20120420
184315/http://www.h-france.net/vol4reviews/mcphee3.html) 20 April 2012 at the Wayback Machine
133. Hibbert, p. 321.
134. Schama 2004, p. 646
135. Noah Shusterman – The French Revolution. Faith, Desire, and Politics. Routledge, London and New York, 2014.
Chapter 8 (pp. 204–234): The Reign of Terror (fall 1793–summer 1794).
136. Louis R. Gottschalk, The Era of the French Revolution (1715–1815) (1929) p. 281
137. Chisholm, Hugh, ed. (1911). "Carnot, Lazare Nicolas Marguerite" (https://en.wikisource.org/wiki/1911_Encyclo
p%C3%A6dia_Britannica/Carnot,_Lazare_Nicolas_Marguerite). Encyclopædia Britannica. 5 (11th ed.).
Cambridge University Press. pp. 376–377.
138. (in French) Decree of 17 September 1793 ordering the arrest of Suspect People (http://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/b
pt6k6274583v/f336.image). Gallica, the digitalized Bibliothèque nationale de France (http://gallica.bnf.fr/html/und/
a-propos). Retrieved 21 April 2017.
139. "Reign of Terror" (https://www.britannica.com/event/Reign-of-Terror). Encyclopædia Britannica (2015). Retrieved
19 April 2017.
140. 'Principal Dates and Time Line of the French Revolution' (https://www.marxists.org/history/france/revolution/timeli
ne.htm). marxists.org. Retrieved 21 April 2017.
141. Schama 2004, p. 658
142. 'State and Counterrevolution in France' – Charles Tilly (http://publishing.cdlib.org/ucpressebooks/view?docId=ft2h
4nb1h9&doc.view=content&chunk.id=d0e1419&toc.depth=1&anchor.id=0&brand=eschol). In: The French
Revolution and the Birth of Modernity (http://publishing.cdlib.org/ucpressebooks/view?docId=ft2h4nb1h9;brand=e
schol), edited by Ferenc Fehér. University of California Press; Berkeley – Los Angeles – Oxford, 1990. Retrieved
6 March 2017.
143. 117,000 according to Reynald Secher, La Vendée-Vengé, le Génocide franco-français (1986); 200,000–250,000
according to Jean-Clément Martin, La Vendée et la France, Éditions du Seuil, collection Points, 1987; 200,000
according to Louis-Marie Clénet, La Contre-révolution, Paris, PUF, collection Que sais-je?, 1992; 170,000
according to Jacques Hussenet (dir.), " Détruisez la Vendée ! " Regards croisés sur les victimes et destructions
de la guerre de Vendée, La Roche-sur-Yon, Centre vendéen de recherches historiques, 2007, p. 148.
144. Dr Linton, Marisa. "The Terror in the French Revolution" (https://web.archive.org/web/20120117152123/http://ww
w.port.ac.uk/special/france1815to2003/chapter1/interviews/filetodownload%2C20545%2Cen.pdf) (PDF).
Kingston University. Archived from the original (http://www.port.ac.uk/special/france1815to2003/chapter1/intervie
ws/filetodownload,20545,en.pdf) (PDF) on 17 January 2012.
145. Jacques Hussenet (dir.), " Détruisez la Vendée ! " Regards croisés sur les victimes et destructions de la guerre
de Vendée, La Roche-sur-Yon, Centre vendéen de recherches historiques, 2007
146. Hugh Cough, "Genocide and the Bicentenary: the French Revolution and the Revenge of the Vendee." Historical
Journal 30#4 (1987): 977–88
147. Anthony James Joes, "Insurgency and Genocide: La Vendée." Small Wars & Insurgencies 9#3 (1998): 17–45.
148. The term is rejected by Michel Vovelle, " L'historiographie de la Révolution Française à la veille du bicentenaire ",
Estudos avançados, octobre-décembre 1987, volume 1, n° 1, pp. 61–72. [1] (http://www.scielo.br/scielo.php?pid=
S0103-40141987000100006&script=sci_arttext) ou [2] (http://www.scielo.br/pdf/ea/v1n1/v1n1a06.pdf)
149. François Furet and Mona Ozouf, eds. A Critical Dictionary of the French Revolution (1989), p. 175
150. Jean-Baptiste Carrier (http://www.britannica.com/EBchecked/topic/97009/Jean-Baptiste-Carrier), Encyclopædia
Britannica
151. Soboul (1975), p. 384.
152. Schama 2004, p. 706
153. Noah Shusterman – The French Revolution. Faith, Desire, and Politics. Routledge, London and New York, 2014.
Chapter 9 (pp. 235–54): After the Terror (fall 1794–1799)
154.
Alfred Cobban – A History of Modern France vol 1. 1715–1799. Penguin, 1957. (p. 243);
Denis Woronoff – The Thermidorean regime and the Directory. CUP, 1972. (p. 23);
Albert Soboul – A short history of the French Revolution: 1789–1799. University of California Press, 1977.
(pp. 425–28);
John Paxton – Companion to the French Revolution. Facts on File Publications, 1988. (p. 207);
Simon Schama – Citizens: A Chronicle of the French Revolution. Penguin, [1989] 2004. (p. 852).
155. Soboul (1975), pp. 425–28.
156. Schama, p. 852.
157. William Doyle – The Oxford History of the French Revolution (2nd ed.) Oxford University Press, Oxford – New
York, 1990. (pp. 206–07.)
158. Simon Schama – Patriots and Liberators. Revolution in the Netherlands 1780–1813. New York: Vintage Books,
1977. (pp. 178–92)
159. J.C.H. Blom and E. Lamberts (editors) – Geschiedenis van de Nederlanden [History of the Low Countries] (3rd
ed.) HB uitgevers, Baarn, [2001] 2003. (pp. 227–28)
160. Ernst August Richard Engels – Friedrich Nicolais "Allgemeine deutsche Bibliothek" und der Friede von Basel
1795. Published: Würzburg, Buchdruckerei R. Mayr, 1936.
161. Doyle (1989), p. 320
162. Doyle, Oxford History, pp. 322–23
163. Doyle, Oxford History (2003) pp. 322–23
164. François Furet, Revolutionary France 1770–1880 (1995) p. 155
165. Howard G. Brown (2007). Ending the French Revolution: Violence, Justice, and Repression from the Terror to
Napoleon (https://books.google.com/books?id=QccRae4wRZoC&pg=PA5). U. of Virginia Press. pp. 5–7.
ISBN 978-0-8139-2729-9.
166. Brown (2007). Ending the French Revolution: Violence, Justice, and Repression from the Terror to Napoleon (htt
ps://books.google.com/books?id=QccRae4wRZoC&pg=PA1). p. 1. ISBN 978-0-8139-2729-9.
167. Doyle, Oxford History (2003) pp. 318–40
168. Doyle, Oxford History p. 331
169. Grab, Alexander (2003). Napoleon and the Transformation of Europe (https://books.google.com/books?id=d48dB
QAAQBAJ). Macmillan International Higher Education. ISBN 978-1-4039-3757-5.
170. David Nicholls, Napoleon: a biographical companion (1999)
171. William Doyle, The Oxford History of the French Revolution (1989) pp. 341–68
172. Steven T. Ross, European Diplomatic History, 1789–1815: France Against Europe (1969)
173. Alexander Grab, Napoleon and the Transformation of Europe (2003) pp. 62–65, 78–79, 88–96, 115–17, 154–59
174. Frederick B. Artz, Reaction and Revolution: 1814–1832 (1934) pp. 142–43
175. Harvey Chisick, "The pamphlet literature of the French revolution: An overview." History of European ideas
(1993) 17#2–3 pp. 149–66.
176. Jane Chapman, "Republican citizenship, ethics and the French revolutionary press," Ethical Space: The
International Journal of Communication Ethics (2005) 2#1 pp. 7–12
177. Hugh Gough, The Newspaper Press in the French Revolution (1988)
178. Jeremy Popkin, Revolutionary News: The Press in France 1789–1799 (1990)
179. Jeremy D. Popkin, "The Press and the French revolution after two hundred years." French Historical Studies
(1990): 664–83 in JSTOR (https://www.jstor.org/stable/286493).
180. Harvey Chisick, "Pamphlets and Journalism in the Early French Revolution: The Offices of the Ami du Roi of the
Abbé Royou as a Center of Royalist Propaganda," French Historical Studies (1988) 15#4 623–45 in JSTOR (http
s://www.jstor.org/stable/286549)
181. Censer and Hunt, "How to Read Images" LEF CD-ROM
182. Cerulo, Karen A. (1993). "Symbols and the world system: national anthems and flags". Sociological Forum. 8 (2):
243–71. doi:10.1007/BF01115492 (https://doi.org/10.1007%2FBF01115492).
183. Paul R. Hanson (2007). The A to Z of the French Revolution (https://books.google.com/books?id=yYJ4AAAAQB
AJ&pg=PA151). Scarecrow Press. p. 151. ISBN 978-1-4617-1606-8.
184. R. Po-chia Hsia, Lynn Hunt, Thomas R. Martin, Barbara H. Rosenwein, and Bonnie G. Smith, The Making of the
West, Peoples and Culture, A Concise History, Volume II: Since 1340, (2nd ed., 2007), p. 664.
185. R.F. Opie, Guillotine (2003)
186. Doyle, William (2001). The French Revolution: A Very Short Introduction (https://books.google.com/books?id=OE
i4bYIUP1sC&pg=PT22). Oxford UP. p. 22. ISBN 978-0-19-157837-3.
187. Crowdy, Terry, French Revolutionary Infantry 1789–1802, p. 42 (2004).
188. Marie Joseph Paul Yves Roch Gilbert Du Motier Lafayette (marquis de), Memoirs, correspondence and
manuscripts of General Lafayette, vol. 2, p. 252.
189. Clifford, Dale, "Can the Uniform Make the Citizen? Paris, 1789–1791," Eighteenth-Century Studies, 2001, p. 369.
190. Kershaw, Andrew: The First War Planes, Friend Or Foe, National Aircraft Markings, pp. 41–44. BCP Publishing,
1971.
191. William J. Cooper and John McCardell. "Liberty caps and liberty trees." Past and Present 146#1 (1995): 66–102.
in JSTOR (https://www.jstor.org/stable/pdfplus/10.2307/651152.pdf)
192. Hunt, Lynn, ed. (1996). The French Revolution and Human Rights. Boston: Bedford. p. 123.
193. Louis Devance, "Le Féminisme pendant la Révolution Française," Annales Historiques de la Révolution
Française (1977) 49#3 pp. 341–76
194. Jane Abray, "Feminism in the French Revolution," American Historical Review (1975) 80#1 pp. 43–62 in JSTOR
(https://www.jstor.org/stable/1859051)
195. Dalton "Madame Roland" 262
196. Rebel Daughters: Women and the French Revolution Edited by Sara E Melzer and Leslie W. Rabine p. 79
197. Women and the Limits of Citizenship in the French Revolution by Olwen W. Hufton pp. 23–24
198. Rebel Daughters by Sara E Melzer and Leslie W. Rabine p. 91
199. Hufton, "Women and the Limits of Citizenship," p. 31
200. James H. McMillan, France and women, 1789–1914: gender, society and politics (Routledge, 2002) p. 24
201. Darline Gay Levy, Harriet Branson Applewhite and Mary Durham Johnson, eds. Women in Revolutionary Paris,
1789–1795 (1981) pp. 143–49
202. De Gouges "Writings" 564–68
203. Susan Dalton, "Gender and the Shifting Ground of Revolutionary Politics: The Case of Madame Roland,"
Canadian journal of history (2001) 36#2 pp. 262–67
204. Lisa Beckstrand, Deviant women of the French Revolution and the rise of feminism (2009) p. 20
205. Olwen Hufton, Women and the Limits of Citizenship (1992) pp. 106–107
206. Desan p. 452
207. Hufton, Olwen. "In Search of Counter-Revolutionary Women." 1998 p. 303
208. Hufton, Women and the Limits of Citizenship (1992) p. 104
209. Olwen Hufton, "In Search of Counter-Revolutionary Women." 1998 pp. 303–04
210. D.M.G. Sutherland, "Peasants, Lords, and Leviathan: Winners and Losers from the Abolition of French
Feudalism, 1780–1820," Journal of Economic History (2002) 62#1 pp. 1–24 in JSTOR (https://www.jstor.org/stabl
e/2697970)
211. Liana Vardi, "The abolition of the guilds during the French Revolution," French Historical Studies (1988) 15#4 pp.
704–17 in JSTOR (https://www.jstor.org/stable/286554)
212. R.R. Palmer, "How Five Centuries of Educational Philanthropy Disappeared in the French Revolution," History of
Education Quarterly (1986) 26#2 pp. 181–97 in JSTOR (https://www.jstor.org/stable/368736)
213. Elise S. Brezis and François H. Crouzet, "The role of assignats during the French Revolution: An evil or a
rescuer?" Journal of European economic history (1995) 24#1 pp. 7–40, online.
214. George Lefebvre, Napoleon From 18 Brumaire to Tilsit 1799–1807 (1970)
215. Broers, Michael; et al. (2012). The Napoleonic Empire and the New European Political Culture (https://books.goo
gle.com/books?id=b2EyFo5PIKcC&pg=PA209). Palgrave Macmillan. pp. 209–12. ISBN 978-0-230-24131-2.
216. R.R. Palmer, The Age of the Democratic Revolution: The Struggle, Volume II: The Struggle (1970)
217. Klaits, Joseph; Haltzel, Michael H.; Haltzel, Michael (2002). Global Ramifications of the French Revolution (http
s://books.google.com/books?id=vVilfUkW5usC). Cambridge UP. ISBN 978-0-521-52447-6.
218. Dann, Otto; Dinwiddy, John (1988). Nationalism in the Age of the French Revolution (https://books.google.com/b
ooks?id=qrujM36H7qUC&pg=PP13). Continuum. p. 13. ISBN 978-0-907628-97-2.
219. Beatrice Fry Hyslop, French Nationalism in 1789 (1968) especially chap. 7
220. Carlton J.H. Hayes, The Historical Evolution of Modern Nationalism (1931), ch 2–3
221. Keitner, Chimene I. (2007). The Paradoxes of Nationalism: The French Revolution and Its Meaning for
Contemporary Nation Building (https://books.google.com/books?id=4MYLwpOJMnUC). SUNY Press. p. 12.
ISBN 978-0-7914-6958-3.
222. John Hall Stewart, A Documentary Survey of the french revolution (1951) pp. 783–94
223. J.M. Thompson, Robespierre and the French Revolution (1962) p. 22
224. Lefebvre, Georges (2005) [1947]. The Coming of the French Revolution (https://books.google.com/books?id=P4
EYuia7buUC&pg=PA212). Princeton UP. p. 212. ISBN 978-0-691-12188-8.
225. Aulard in Arthur Tilley, ed. (1922) p. 115
226. Emmet Kennedy, A Cultural History of the French Revolution (1989) pp. 145–67
227. Kennedy, A Cultural History of the French Revolution (1989) pp. 338–53
228. Furet, ed., A Critical Dictionary of the French Revolution, pp. 20–32
229. Geoffrey Ellis, 'Religion according to Napoleon', in Nigel Aston, ed., Religious change in Europe, 1650–1914
(1997)
230. J. Christopher Soper and Joel S. Fetzer, "Explaining the accommodation of Muslim religious practices in France,
Britain, and Germany." French Politics(2003) 1#1: 39–59; see also Abdulkader H. Sinno (2009). Muslims in
Western Politics (https://books.google.com/books?id=SD6nUUUKRboC&pg=PT55). Indiana UP. pp. 55–56.
ISBN 978-0-253-22024-0.
231. Tim McHugh, "Expanding Women's Rural Medical Work in Early Modern Brittany: The Daughters of the Holy
Spirit," Journal of the History of Medicine and Allied Sciences (2012) 67#3 pp. 428–56. online in project MUSE (h
ttp://muse.jhu.edu/journals/journal_of_the_history_of_medicine_and_allied_sciences/v067/67.3.mchugh.html)
232. Jacques Léonard, "Femmes, Religion et Médecine: Les Religieuses qui Soignent, en France au XIXe Siècle,"
Annales: Economies, Societes, Civilisations (1977) 32#5 pp. 887–907
233. P.M. Jones (1988). The Peasantry in the French Revolution (https://books.google.com/books?id=s4x9_2uIoroC&
pg=PA252). Cambridge UP. pp. 251–54, 265. ISBN 978-0-521-33070-1.
234. Crane Brinton, A decade of revolution, 1789–1799 (1934) pp. 277–78
235. Alfred Cobban, The social interpretation of the French Revolution (1964) p. 89
236. Alfred Cobban, The social interpretation of the French Revolution (1964) pp. 68–80
237. Franck, Raphaël; Michalopoulos, Stelios (October 2017). "Emigration during the French Revolution:
Consequences in the Short and Longue Durée" (https://www.minneapolisfed.org/institute/working-papers-institut
e/iwp2.pdf) (PDF). NBER Working Paper No. 23936. doi:10.3386/w23936 (https://doi.org/10.3386%2Fw23936).
238. Finley, Theresa; Franck, Raphael; Johnson, Noel (2 December 2017). "Economic consequences of revolutions:
Evidence from the 1789 French Revolution" (http://voxeu.org/article/economic-consequences-revolutions).
VoxEU.org. Retrieved 2 December 2017.
239. Finley, Theresa; Franck, Raphael; Johnson, Noel (6 September 2017). "The Effects of Land Redistribution:
Evidence from the French Revolution" (https://papers.ssrn.com/abstract=3033094). Rochester, NY.
240. Furet, ed., A Critical Dictionary of the French Revolution, pp. 479–93
241. Robert Tombs, "Inventing politics: from Bourbon Restoration to republican monarchy," in Martin S. Alexander, ed.,
French history since Napoleon (1999), pp. 59–79
242. Paul R. Hanson (2009). Contesting the French Revolution (https://books.google.com/books?id=dsCf8Q0xqO4C&
pg=PA189). Wiley. p. 189. ISBN 978-1-4051-6083-4.
243. Kolakowski, Leszek (1978). Main Currents of Marxism: The Founders, the Golden Age, the Breakdown (https://b
ooks.google.com/books?id=qUCxpznbkaoC&pg=PA152). W.W. Norton. pp. 152–54. ISBN 978-0-393-06054-6.
244. "State and private institutions (Chapter 3) – The Cambridge Economic History of Modern Europe". Cambridge
Core. June 2010. doi:10.1017/CBO9780511794834.005 (https://doi.org/10.1017%2FCBO9780511794834.005).
245. Acemoglu, Daron; Cantoni, Davide; Johnson, Simon; Robinson, James A. (2011). "The Consequences of Radical
Reform: The French Revolution" (http://www.nber.org/papers/w14831.pdf) (PDF). American Economic Review.
101 (7): 3286–3307. doi:10.1257/aer.101.7.3286 (https://doi.org/10.1257%2Faer.101.7.3286). hdl:10419/37516
(https://hdl.handle.net/10419%2F37516).
246. Buggle, Johannes C. (1 August 2016). "Law and social capital: Evidence from the Code Napoleon in Germany"
(http://www.diw.de/documents/publikationen/73/diw_01.c.424945.de/diw_sp0566.pdf) (PDF). European
Economic Review. 87 (Supplement C): 148–75. doi:10.1016/j.euroecorev.2016.05.003 (https://doi.org/10.1016%
2Fj.euroecorev.2016.05.003). hdl:10419/78237 (https://hdl.handle.net/10419%2F78237).
247. Wikisource, https://en.wikisource.org/wiki/Englishmen_in_the_French_Revolution/Chapter_II
248. Emma Vincent Macleod, A War of Ideas: British Attitudes to the War against Revolutionary France, 1792–1802
(1999)
249. Palmer, The Age of the Democratic Revolution: The Struggle, Volume II (1970) pp. 459–505
250. Clark, J.C.D. (2000). English Society: 1660–1832; Religion, Ideology and Politics During the Ancient Regime (htt
ps://books.google.com/books?id=JAV-pVZkC7MC&pg=PA233). Cambridge University Press. p. 233. ISBN 978-0-
521-66627-5. Retrieved 16 June 2013.
251. Graham, pp. 297–98.
252. Crowe, Ian (2005). An Imaginative Whig: Reassessing the Life and Thought of Edmund Burke (https://books.goo
gle.com/books?id=a3-oIBwZvFcC&pg=PA93). University of Missouri Press. p. 93. ISBN 978-0-8262-6419-0.
Retrieved 17 June 2013.
Censer, Jack; Lynn Hunt (2001). Liberty, Equality, Fraternity: Exploring the French Revolution. Pennsylvania:
Pennsylvania State University Press.
Cole, Alistair; Peter Campbell (1989). French electoral systems and elections since 1789 (https://books.google.co
m/id=msOIAAAAMAAJ&q=%22first+bicameral+legislature%22+directory+french). Gower.
Palmer, R.R.; Joel Colton (1995). A History of the Modern World. New York: McGraw Hill, Inc.
253. On the French reception of Price's Discourse and the Revolution Society, see Duthille, Rémy (2010). "1688–
1789. Au carrefour des révolutions : les célébrations de la révolution anglaise de 1688 en Grande-Bretagne
après 1789" (http://www.pur-editions.fr/detail.php?idOuv=2305). In Cottret, Bernard; Henneton, Lauric (eds.). Du
Bon Usage des commémorations : histoire, mémoire, identité, XVIe – XVIIIe siècles (in French). Rennes:
Presses Universitaires de Rennes. pp. 107–20.
254. Pelling, Nick (2002). Anglo-Irish Relations: 1798 1922 (https://books.google.com/books?id=ttSsGEWW3tcC&pg=
PA5). Routledge. pp. 5–10. ISBN 978-0-203-98655-4.
255. Theodore S. Hamerow (1958). Restoration, Revolution, Reaction: Economics and Politics in Germany, 1815–
1871 (https://books.google.com/books?id=IPNXfV2-DhcC&pg=PA22). Princeton UP. pp. 22–24, 44–45.
ISBN 978-0-691-00755-7.
256. Marc H. Lerner, "The Helvetic Republic: An Ambivalent Reception of French Revolutionary Liberty," French
History (2004) 18#1 pp. 50–75.
257. Palmer, The Age of the Democratic Revolution 2:394–421
258. Kossmann, E.H. (1978). The Low Countries: 1780–1940. Oxford: Clarendon Press. pp. 65–81, 101–02.
ISBN 978-0-19-822108-1.
259. Bernard A. Cook, Belgium (2005) pp. 49–54
260. Clark, Samuel (1984). "Nobility, Bourgeoisie and the Industrial Revolution in Belgium". Past & Present. 105 (105):
140–75. doi:10.1093/past/105.1.140 (https://doi.org/10.1093%2Fpast%2F105.1.140). JSTOR 650548 (https://ww
w.jstor.org/stable/650548).
261. Horstboll, Henrik; Ostergård, Uffe (1990). "Reform and Revolution: The French Revolution and the Case of
Denmark". Scandinavian Journal of History. 15 (3): 155–79. doi:10.1080/03468759008579195 (https://doi.org/10.
1080%2F03468759008579195).
262. Susan Dunn, Sister Revolutions: French Lightning, American Light (2000)
263. Rude pp. 12–14
264. Rude, p. 15
265. Rude, p. 12
266. Rude, p. 17
267. Rude, pp. 12–20
268. Soboul, Albert. La Révolution française, pp. 45–48
269. George C. Comninel (1987). Rethinking the French Revolution: Marxism and the Revisionist Challenge (https://b
ooks.google.com/books?id=z9HR3ALvUXoC&pg=PA31). Verso. p. 31. ISBN 978-0-86091-890-5.
270. Spang, Rebecca L. (2003). "Paradigms and Paranoia: How modern Is the French Revolution?". American
Historical Review. 108 (1): 119–47 [esp p. 120]. doi:10.1086/ahr/108.1.119 (https://doi.org/10.1086%2Fahr%2F1
08.1.119).
271. Bell, David A. (2004). "Class, consciousness, and the fall of the bourgeois revolution". Critical Review. 16 (2–3):
323–51. doi:10.1080/08913810408443613 (https://doi.org/10.1080%2F08913810408443613).
272. Frey, "Preface"
273. Hanson, p. 189
274. Hanson, p. 191
275. Riemer, Neal; Simon, Douglas (1997). The New World of Politics: An Introduction to Political Science (https://boo
ks.google.com/books?id=gKa3FTpH49oC&pg=PA106). Rowman & Littlefield. p. 106. ISBN 978-0-939693-41-2.
References
Doyle, William (1990). The Oxford history of the French Revolution (https://books.google.com/id=N7chHQAACAA
J) (3rd ed.). Oxford: Oxford University Press. ISBN 978-0-19-285221-2.
Doyle, William (2001). The French Revolution: A very short introduction (https://books.google.com/?id=B-Zf4topzf
QC). Oxford: Oxford University Press. ISBN 978-0-19-285396-7.
Doyle, William (2002). The Oxford history of the French Revolution (https://books.google.com/?id=oMYWKlevAV
4C) (2nd ed.). Oxford University Press. ISBN 978-0-19-925298-5. online (https://archive.org/details/oxfordhistory
off00doyl_0); 2nd edition online (https://archive.org/details/oxfordhistoryoff00doyl)
Feher, Ferenc (1990). The French Revolution and the Birth of Modernity. Los Angeles: University of California
Press.
Frey, Linda; Marsha Frey (2004). The French Revolution (https://books.google.com/?id=RFgXl1EG5soC).
Westport, Connecticut: Greenwood Press. ISBN 978-0-313-32193-1.
Furet, F. (1981). Interpreting the French Revolution. Cambridge UP.
Furet, François (1995). Revolutionary France, 1770–1880 (https://books.google.com/?id=EPsEJIdFz3AC).
Blackwell Publishing. ISBN 978-0-631-19808-6.
Hampson, Norman (1988). A Social History of the French Revolution. Routledge: University of Toronto Press.
ISBN 978-0-7100-6525-4.
Hanson, Paul (2009). Contesting the French Revolution (https://books.google.com/?id=dsCf8Q0xqO4C&pg=PA1
86#v=onepage&q=legacy%20french%20revolution). Blackwell Publishing. ISBN 978-1-4051-6083-4.
Hibbert, Christopher (1980). The Days of the French Revolution (https://books.google.com/?id=yr1z38HCkdAC).
New York: Quill, William Morrow. ISBN 978-0-688-03704-8.
Hunt, Lynn (1984). Politics, Culture, and Class in the French Revolution. Berkeley: University of California Press.
Kennedy, Emmet (1989). A Cultural History of the French Revolution. New Haven: Yale University Press.
Lefebvre, Georges (1971). The French Revolution: From Its Origins to 1793 (https://books.google.com/?id=I2oA5
MtB0ZkC). Columbia University Press. ISBN 978-0-231-08598-4.
Lefebvre, Georges (1964). The Thermidorians & the Directory. New York: Random House.
Lefebvre, Georges (1963). The French Revolution: from 1793 to 1799. vol. II. New York: Columbia University
Press. ISBN 978-0-231-02519-5.
McManners, John (1969). The French Revolution and the Church. New York: Harper and Row.
Neely, Sylvia (2008). A Concise History of the French Revolution (https://books.google.com/?id=fccjTyOQiYwC).
Rowman & Littlefield. ISBN 978-0-7425-3411-7.
Rude, George (1991). The French Revolution: Its Causes, Its History and Its Legacy After 200 Years (https://boo
ks.google.com/?id=f1pMIbvzKckC). Grove Press. ISBN 978-0-8021-3272-7.
Schama, Simon (2004) [1989]. Citizens. Penguin. ISBN 978-0-14-101727-3.
Shusterman, Noah (2014). The French Revolution. Faith, Desire, and Politics. Routledge, London and New York.
Soboul, Albert (1975). The French Revolution 1787–1799 (https://archive.org/details/frenchrevolution00sobo).
New York: Vintage. ISBN 978-0-394-71220-8.
Soboul, Albert (1977). A short history of the French Revolution: 1789–1799 (https://books.google.com/?id=GSdw
2oC60cwC). Geoffrey Symcox. University of California Press, Ltd. ISBN 978-0-520-03419-8.
Thompson, J.M. (1959). The French Revolution. Oxford: Basil Blackwell.
Woronoff, Denis (1984). The Thermidorean regime and the directory: 1794–1799. Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press. ISBN 978-0-521-28917-7.
Andress, David, ed. The Oxford Handbook of the French Revolution (Oxford University Press, 2015). excerpt (htt
ps://www.amazon.com/Oxford-Handbook-French-Revolution-Handbooks/dp/0199639744/), 714 pp; 37 articles by
Further reading
Surveys and reference
experts
Aulard, François-Alphonse. The French Revolution, a Political History, 1789–1804 (4 vol. 1910); famous classic;
volume 1 1789–1792 online (https://archive.org/details/frenchrevolutio02mialgoog); Volume 2 1792–95 online (htt
ps://books.google.com/books?id=UJMJAQAAIAAJ)
Azurmendi, Joxe (1997). The democrats and the violent. Mirande's critique of the French Revolution (https://web.
archive.org/web/20160303184957/http://basque.criticalstew.org/wp-content/uploads/The-democrats-and-the-viole
nt.pdf). Philosophical viewpoint. (Original: Demokratak eta biolentoak, Donostia: Elkar ISBN 84-7917-744-6).
Ballard, Richard. A New Dictionary of the French Revolution (2011) excerpt and text search (https://www.amazo
n.com/New-Dictionary-French-Revolution/dp/184885465X/)
Bosher, J.F. The French Revolution (1989) 365 pp
Davies, Peter. The French Revolution: A Beginner's Guide (2009), 192 pp
Frey, Linda and Frey, Marsha. The French Revolution. Westport: Greenwood Press, 2004. ISBN 0-313-32193-0
Furet, François. The French Revolution, 1770–1814 (1996) excerpt and text search (https://www.amazon.com/Fr
ench-Revolution-1770-1814-History-France/dp/0631202994/)
Furet, François and Mona Ozouf, eds. A Critical Dictionary of the French Revolution (1989), 1120 pp; long
essays by scholars; conservative perspective; stress on history of ideas excerpt and text search (https://www.am
azon.com/Critical-Dictionary-French-Revolution/dp/0674177282/)
Gershoy, Leo. The French Revolution and Napoleon (1945) 585 pp
Gershoy, Leo. The Era of the French Revolution, 1789–1799 (1957), brief summary with some primary sources
Gottschalk, Louis R. The Era of the French Revolution (1929), cover 1780s to 1815
Hanson, Paul R. The A to Z of the French Revolution (2013)
Hanson, Paul R. Historical Dictionary of the French Revolution (2004)
Jaurès, Jean. A Socialist History of the French Revolution. Pluto Press, 2015. ISBN 978-0-7453-3500-1
Jones, Colin. The Longman Companion to the French Revolution (1989)
Jones, Colin. The Great Nation: France from Louis XV to Napoleon (2002) excerpt and text search (https://www.a
mazon.com/Great-Nation-Napoleon-Penguin-History/dp/0140130934/)
Lefebvre, Georges. The French Revolution: From its Origins to 1793 (1962), famous French classic excerpt and
text search v 1 (https://www.amazon.com/French-Revolution-Origins-Routledge-Classics-ebook/dp/B000PLXBI
2/)
Lefebvre, Georges. French Revolution from 1793–1799 (1964)
McPhee, Peter, ed. (2012). A Companion to the French Revolution (https://books.google.com/books?id=Hj9dY-J
Azw0C&pg=PR15). Wiley. ISBN 978-1-118-31641-2.
Madelin, Louis. The French Revolution (1916); textbook by leading French scholar. online (https://archive.org/det
ails/cu31924024309704)
Paxton, John. Companion to the French Revolution (1987), 234 pp; hundreds of short entries.
Popkin, Jeremy D. A Short History of the French Revolution (5th ed. 2009) 176 pp
Scott, Samuel F. and Barry Rothaus, eds. Historical Dictionary of the French Revolution, 1789–1799 (2 vol 1984),
short essays by scholars vol. 1 online (https://www.questia.com/library/1349250/historical-dictionary-of-the-french
-revolution-1789-1799); vol 2 online (https://www.questia.com/read/71902167/historical-dictionary-of-the-french-r
evolution-1789-1799)
Shusterman, Noah (2014). The French Revolution. Faith, Desire, and Politics. Routledge, London and New York.
Soboul, Albert. The French Revolution, 1787–1799: From the storming of the Bastille to Napoleon (1975)
Sutherland, D.M.G. France 1789–1815. Revolution and Counter-Revolution (2nd ed. 2003, 430 pp excerpts and
online search from Amazon.com (https://www.amazon.com/French-Revolution-Empire-Quest-Civic/dp/06312336
36/)
Thompson, J.M. The French Revolution (1943), British viewpoint
Amann, Peter H., ed. The eighteenth-century revolution: French or Western? (Heath, 1963) readings from
historians
Brinton, Crane. A Decade of Revolution 1789–1799 (1934) the Revolution in European context
Desan, Suzanne, et al. eds. The French Revolution in Global Perspective (2013)
Fremont-Barnes, Gregory. ed. The Encyclopedia of the French Revolutionary and Napoleonic Wars: A Political,
Social, and Military History (ABC-CLIO: 3 vol 2006)
Goodwin, A., ed. The New Cambridge Modern History, Vol. 8: The American and French Revolutions, 1763–93
(1965), 764 pp
Palmer, R.R. "The World Revolution of the West: 1763–1801," Political Science Quarterly (1954) 69#1 pp. 1–14
in JSTOR (https://www.jstor.org/stable/2145054)
Palmer, Robert R. The Age of the Democratic Revolution: A Political History of Europe and America, 1760–1800.
(2 vol 1959), highly influential comparative history; vol 1 online (https://www.questia.com/read/22790906)
Rude, George F. and Harvey J. Kaye. Revolutionary Europe, 1783–1815 (2000), scholarly survey excerpt and
text search (https://www.amazon.com/Revolutionary-Europe-Blackwell-Classic-Histories/dp/0631221905/)
Andress, David. The terror: Civil war in the French revolution (2006).
ed. Baker, Keith M. The French Revolution and the Creation of Modern Political Culture (Oxford, 1987–94) vol 1:
The Political Culture of the Old Regime, ed. K.M. Baker (1987); vol. 2: The Political Culture of the French
Revolution, ed. C. Lucas (1988); vol. 3: The Transformation of Political Culture, 1789–1848, eds. F. Furet & M.
Ozouf (1989); vol. 4: The Terror, ed. K.M. Baker (1994). excerpt and text search vol 4 (https://www.amazon.com/
French-Revolution-Creation-Political-Culture/dp/0080413870/)
Blanning, T.C.W. The French Revolutionary Wars 1787–1802 (1996).
Desan, Suzanne. "Internationalizing the French Revolution," French Politics, Culture & Society (2011) 29#2
pp. 137–60.
Doyle, William. Origins of the French Revolution (3rd ed. 1999) online edition (https://www.questia.com/library/bo
ok/origins-of-the-french-revolution-by-william-doyle.jsp)
Englund, Steven. Napoleon: A Political Life. (2004). 575 pp; emphasis on politics excerpt and text search (https://
www.amazon.com/Napoleon-Political-Life-Steven-Englund/dp/0674018036/)
Fremont-Barnes, Gregory. The French Revolutionary Wars (2013), 96 pp; excerpt and text search (https://www.a
mazon.com/French-Revolutionary-Wars-Essential-Histories-ebook/dp/B00DSLXXKM/)
Griffith, Paddy. The Art of War of Revolutionary France 1789–1802, (1998); 304 pp; excerpt and text search (http
s://www.amazon.com/Art-War-Revolutionary-France-1789-1802/dp/1853673358/)
Rothenberg, Gunther E. (Spring 1988). "The Origins, Causes, and Extension of the Wars of the French
Revolution and Napoleon". Journal of Interdisciplinary History. 18 (4): 771–93. doi:10.2307/204824 (https://doi.or
g/10.2307%2F204824). JSTOR 204824 (https://www.jstor.org/stable/204824).
Hardman, John. Louis XVI: The Silent King (2nd ed. 2016) 500 pp; much expanded new edition; now the
standard scholarly biography; (1st ed. 1994) 224; older scholarly biography
Schroeder, Paul. The Transformation of European Politics, 1763–1848. 1996; Thorough coverage of diplomatic
history; hostile to Napoleon; online edition (https://www.questia.com/library/book/the-transformation-of-europeanpolitics-1763-1848-by-paul-w-schroeder.jsp)
Wahnich, Sophie (2016). In Defence of the Terror: Liberty or Death in the French Revolution (Reprint ed.). Verso.
ISBN 978-1-78478-202-3.
European and Atlantic History
Politics and wars
Economy and society
Anderson, James Maxwell. Daily life during the French Revolution (2007)
Andress, David. French Society in Revolution, 1789–1799 (1999)
Kennedy, Emmet. A Cultural History of the French Revolution (1989)
McPhee, Peter. "The French Revolution, Peasants, and Capitalism," American Historical Review (1989) 94#5
pp. 1265–80 in JSTOR (https://www.jstor.org/stable/1906350)
Tackett, Timothy, "The French Revolution and religion to 1794," and Suzanne Desan, "The French Revolution
and religion, 1795–1815," in Stewart J. Brown and Timothy Tackett, eds. The Cambridge History of Christianity
vol. 7 (Cambridge UP, 2006).
Dalton, Susan. "Gender and the Shifting Ground of Revolutionary Politics: The Case of Madame Roland."
Canadian journal of history (2001) 36#2
Godineau, Dominique. The Women of Paris and Their French Revolution (1998) 440 pp 1998
Hufton, Olwen. "Women in Revolution 1789–1796" Past & Present (1971) No. 53 pp. 90–108 in JSTOR (https://w
ww.jstor.org/stable/650282)
Hufton, Olwen. "In Search of Counter-Revolutionary Women." The French Revolution: Recent debates and New
Controversies Ed. Gary Kates. (1998) pp. 302–36
Kelly, Linda. Women of the French Revolution (1987) 192 pp. biographical portraits or prominent writers and
activists
Landes, Joan B. Women and the Public Sphere in the Age of the French Revolution (Cornell University Press,
1988) excerpt and text search (https://www.amazon.com/Women-Public-Sphere-French-Revolution/dp/08014948
18/)
Melzer, Sara E., and Leslie W. Rabine, eds. Rebel daughters: women and the French Revolution (Oxford
University Press, 1992)
Proctor, Candice E. Women, Equality, and the French Revolution (Greenwood Press, 1990) online (https://www.q
uestia.com/read/14219316/women-equality-and-the-french-revolution)
Roessler, Shirley Elson. Out of the Shadows: Women and Politics in the French Revolution, 1789–95 (Peter
Lang, 1998) online (https://www.questia.com/read/53103857/out-of-the-shadows-women-and-politics-in-the-frenc
h)
Andress, David. "Interpreting the French Revolution," Teaching History (2013), Issue 150, pp. 28–29, very short
summary
Censer, Jack R. "Amalgamating the Social in the French Revolution." Journal of Social History 2003 37(1): 145–
50. online (http://muse.jhu.edu/login?auth=0&type=summary&url=/journals/journal_of_social_history/v037/37.1ce
nser.html)
Cox, Marvin R. The Place of the French Revolution in History (1997) 288 pp
Desan, Suzanne. "What's after Political Culture? Recent French Revolutionary Historiography," French Historical
Studies (2000) 23#1 pp. 163–96.
Furet, François and Mona Ozouf, eds. A Critical Dictionary of the French Revolution (1989), 1120 pp; long
essays by scholars; strong on history of ideas and historiography (esp pp. 881–1034 excerpt and text search (htt
ps://www.amazon.com/Critical-Dictionary-French-Revolution/dp/0674177282/)
Furet, François. Interpreting the French revolution (1981).
Germani, Ian, and Robin Swayles. Symbols, myths and images of the French Revolution. University of Regina
Publications. 1998. ISBN 978-0-88977-108-6
Geyl, Pieter. Napoleon for and Against (1949), 477 pp; summarizes views of major historians on controversial
issues
Women
Historiography and memory
Hanson, Paul R. Contesting the French Revolution (2009). 248 pp.
Kafker, Frank A. and James M. Laux, eds. The French Revolution: Conflicting Interpretations (5th ed. 2002),
articles by scholars
Kaplan, Steven Laurence. Farewell, Revolution: The Historians' Feud, France, 1789/1989 (1996), focus on
historians excerpt and text search (https://www.amazon.com/Farewell-Revolution-Historians-Feud-France/dp/080
1482712/)
Kaplan, Steven Laurence. Farewell, Revolution: Disputed Legacies, France, 1789/1989 (1995); focus on bitter
debates re 200th anniversary excerpt and text search (https://www.amazon.com/Farewell-Revolution-Disputed-L
egacies-France/dp/0801427185/)
Kates, Gary, ed. The French Revolution: Recent Debates and New Controversies (2nd ed. 2005) excerpt and
text search (https://www.amazon.com/French-Revolution-Controversies-Rewriting-Histories/dp/0415358337/)
Lewis, Gwynne. The French Revolution: Rethinking the Debate (1993) online (https://www.questia.com/library/10
3416378/the-french-revolution-rethinking-the-debate); 142 pp.
McPhee, Peter, ed. (2012). A Companion to the French Revolution (https://books.google.com/books?id=Hj9dY-J
Azw0C&pg=PR15). Wiley. ISBN 978-1-118-31641-2.; 540 pp; 30 essays by experts; emphasis on historiography
and memory
Reichardt, Rolf: The French Revolution as a European Media Event (http://nbn-resolving.de/urn:nbn:de:0159-201
2082703), European History Online, Mainz: Institute of European History, 2010, retrieved: 17 December 2012.
Ross, Steven T., ed. The French Revolution: conflict or continuity? (1971) 131 pp; excerpt from historians table of
contents (http://trove.nla.gov.au/work/11449740?selectedversion=NBD535017)
Anderson, F.M. (1904). The constitutions and other select documents illustrative of the history of France, 1789–
1901 (https://books.google.com/books?id=N7pVAAAAYAAJ)., complete text online
Burke, Edmund (1790). "Reflections on the Revolution in France". The Physics Teacher. 25 (2): 72.
Bibcode:1987PhTea..25...72F (https://ui.adsabs.harvard.edu/abs/1987PhTea..25...72F). doi:10.1119/1.2342155
(https://doi.org/10.1119%2F1.2342155).
Dwyer, Philip G. and Peter McPhee, eds. The French Revolution and Napoleon: A Sourcebook (2002) 235 pp;
online (https://www.questia.com/library/108790015/the-french-revolution-and-napoleon-a-sourcebook)
Legg, L.G. Wickham, ed. Select Documents Illustrative of the History of the French Revolution (2 Volumes, 1905)
630 pp vol 1 online free (https://archive.org/details/cu31924024309985); in French (not translated)
Levy, Darline Gay, et al. eds. Women in Revolutionary Paris, 1789–1795 (1981) 244 pp excerpt and text search
(https://www.amazon.com/Women-Revolutionary-Paris-1789-1795-Darline/dp/0252008553/)
Mason, Laura, and Tracey Rizzo, eds. The French Revolution: A Document Collection (1998) 334 pp excerpt and
text search (https://www.amazon.com/The-French-Revolution-Document-Collection/dp/0669417807/)
Stewart, John Hall, ed. A Documentary Survey of the French Revolution (1951), 818 pp
Thompson, J.M., ed. The French revolution: Documents, 1789–94 (1948), 287 pp
This article incorporates text from the public domain History of the French Revolution from 1789 to 1814 (https://
www.gutenberg.org/ebooks/9602), by François Mignet (1824), as made available by Project Gutenberg.
Museum of the French Revolution (http://www.domaine-vizille.fr/) (French)
Primary source documents (http://www.fordham.edu/halsall/mod/modsbook13.html) from The Internet Modern
History Sourcebook.
Liberty, Equality, Fraternity: Exploring the French Revolution (http://chnm.gmu.edu/revolution/), a collaborative
site by the Center for History and New Media (George Mason University) and the American Social History Project
(City University of New York).
Vancea, S. The Cahiers de Doleances of 1789 (https://web.archive.org/web/20151114165139/http://cliojournal.wi
kispaces.com/The%20Cahiers%20de%20Doleances%20of%201789), Clio History Journal, 2008.
Primary sources
External links
French Revolution Digital Archive (http://frda-stage.stanford.edu/en/images) a collaboration of the Stanford
University Libraries and the Bibliothèque nationale de France, containing 12000 digitised images
The guillotined of the French Revolution (http://les.guillotines.free.fr/) factsheets of all the sentenced to death of
the French Revolution
Jean-Baptiste Lingaud papers (http://hdl.library.upenn.edu/1017/d/ead/upenn_rbml_MsColl515), Kislak Center for
Special Collections, Rare Books and Manuscripts, University of Pennsylvania. Includes a vast number of name
lists and secret surveillance records as well as arrest warrants for aristocrats and their sympathisers. Most
notable in this part of the collection are letters and documents from the Revolutionary Committee and the
Surveillance Committee.
French Revolution Pamphlets (http://purl.lib.ua.edu/18375), Division of Special Collections, University of Alabama
Libraries. Over 300 digitised pamphlets, from writers including Robespierre, St. Juste, Desmoulins, and Danton.
"The French Revolution's Legacy" (http://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/p00547gg) BBC Radio 4 discussion with
Stefan Collini, Anne Janowitz and Andrew Roberts (In Our Time, 14 June 2001)
Preceded by
Ancien Régime (Old
Regime)
French Revolution
1789–1792
Succeeded by
French First Republic
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=French_Revolution&oldid=917394943"
This page was last edited on 23 September 2019, at 17:01 (UTC).
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using
this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia
Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.