His Imperial Majesty (H.I.M) Haile Selassie I, "Rastafari"
Last Emperor of Ethiopia.
Address to the United Nations, 1963 - part 5

The goal of the equality of man which we seek is the antithesis of the exploitation of one people by another with which the pages
of history and in particular those written of the African and Asian continents, speak at such length. Exploitation, thus viewed, has
many faces. But whatever guise it assumes, this evil is to be shunned where it does not exist and crushed where it does. It is the
sacred duty of this Organization to ensure that the dream of equality is finally realized for all men to whom it is still denied, to
guarantee that exploitation is not reincarnated in other forms in places whence it has already been banished.

As a free Africa has emerged during the past decade, a fresh attack has been launched against exploitation, wherever it still exists.
And in that interaction so common to history, this in turn, has stimulated and encouraged the remaining dependent peoples to
renewed efforts to throw off the yoke which has oppressed them and its claim as their birthright the twin ideals of liberty and
equality. This very struggle is a struggle to establish peace, and until victory is assured, that brotherhood and understanding which
nourish and give life to peace can be but partial and incomplete.

In the United States of America, the administration of President Kennedy is leading a vigorous attack to eradicate the remaining
vestige of racial discrimination from this country. We know that this conflict will be won and that right will triumph. In this time
of trial, these efforts should be encouraged and assisted, and we should lend our sympathy and support to the American
Government today.

Last May, in Addis Ababa, I convened a meeting of Heads of African States and Governments. In three days, the thirty-two
nations represented at that Conference demonstrated to the world that when the will and the determination exist, nations and
peoples of diverse backgrounds can and will work together. in unity, to the achievement of common goals and the assurance of
that equality and brotherhood which we desire.